Top 50 Machine Learning Interview Questions (2023) - javatpoint
⇧ SCROLL TO TOP



         















 Home
 Interview Questions
 Java
 SQL
 Python
 JavaScript
 Angular
 Selenium
 Spring Boot
 HR
 C
 Data Structure
 DBMS
 HTML
 C#
 C++






All Interview


Interview Tips
JOB/HR Interview
Competency Interview
Business Analyst
Behavioral Interview


Company Interview


Company Interview
IBM Interview
Infosys Interview
Capgemini Interview
Cognizant Interview
Wipro Interview
Accenture Interview
iGate Interview
TCS Interview
HCL Interview
Adobe Interview
Microsoft Interview
DXC Technology Interview
Ericsson Interview
EXL Service Interview
IndiaMART Interview
Intuit Interview
SpaceX Interview
Sapient Interview
Amazon Interview


Technical Interview


C Interview
C++ Interview
Data Structure Interview
Linux Interview
Unix Interview
Shell Scripting
Networking Interview
CCNA Interview
Android Interview
Cloud Computing
Hadoop Interview
Testing/QTP Interview
Selenium Interview
Web Services Interview
OS Interview
Excel Interview
SEO Interview
Digital Marketing
Python Interview
Django Interview
Pascal Interview
Ruby Interview
Ruby on Rails Interview
Memcached Interview
Go Interview
OpenStack Interview
Scala Interview
Control Systems
Electrical Machines
Power System
Digital Electronics
Robotics Interview
TypeScript Interview
Swift Interview
Blockchain Interview
Bitcoin Interview
AWS Interview
Informatica Interview
QA Interview
React Interview
GIT Interview
J2EE Interview
Deep Learning
Salesforce Interview
TestNG Interview
Agile Interview
Machine Learning
API Testing
Algorithm
Java Design Pattern
Teradata
TensorFlow
LINQ
Mainframe
Laravel
JIRA
JCL
Pytorch
ETL Testing
Linked List
DataStage
Tableau
SAP ABAP
DAA
Computer Graphics
Data Science
Software Engineering
Power BI
Xamarin
Ansible
Data Warehouse
Ionic
Devops
React Native
Python Pandas
HTTP Interview
Kali Linux Interview
PowerShell Interview
SharePoint Interview
Talend Interview
Microsoft Azure Interview
R Interview
Flutter Interview
MATLAB Interview
ES6 Interview
RPA Interview
Desktop Support Interview
Angular 8 Interview
GraphQL Interview
Vue.js Interview
Automation Anywhere Interview
AI Interview
UiPath Interview
Blue Prism Interview
SSIS Interview
Mobile Computing Interview
ITIL Interview
SAS Interview
Elasticsearch Interview
Entity Framework Interview
RxJS Interview
Accounting Interview
Electron.js Interview
Knockout JS Interview
Top Angular Interview
IAS Interview Question
Banking Interview
Interview Questions for Freshers
PowerPoint Interview
BPO Interview
Civil Engineering Interview
Apache Spark Interview
Data Mining Interview
Java Support Interview
Kubernetes Interview
Web API Interview
Scrum Master Interview
System Design Interview
SSB Interview Questions
Teachers Interview Questions
Finance Interview Questions
Technical Support Interview
Active Directory Interview
Appium Interview
Cucumber Interview
Full-Stack Developer
ServiceNow Interview
Nursing Interview
Sales Interview
Microservices Interview
Electrical Engineering Interview
Accounts Payable Interview
VISA Interview
VLSI Interview
AutoCAD Interview
Verilog Interview
OOPs Interview
Web Developer Interview
Express.js Interview
CakePHP Interview
Yii Interview
Zend Framework Interview
Java Concurrency Interview
Symfony Interview
Basic Interview
Dynamic Programming Interview
Programming Interview
Next.js Interview
Microsoft Java Interview
AEM Interview
Svelte.js Interview
COBOL Interview
Cyber Security Interview
SQL Query Interview
BGP Interview
Apache Hive Interview
Kafka Interview
Embedded C Interview
Pega Interview
Kotlin Interview
SAP MM Interview
OSPF Interview
Mobile Testing Interview
Mulesoft Interview
Terraform Interview
Salesforce Lightning Interview
SCCM Interview
Postman Interview
Content Writer Interview
IoT Interview
NLP Interview
Splunk Interview
PostgreSQL Interview
Tricky Java Interview
PySpark Interview
VBA Interview
Front End Developer Interview
Computer Science Interview
Data Modeling Interview
Google Analytics Interview
Sqoop Interview
Statistics Interview
Tally Interview
CICS Interview
Chemistry Interview
Data Engineer Interview
Azure Data Factory Interview
Insurance Interview
IIS Interview
MS Word Interview
SDET Interview
Weblogic Interview
PHP OOPs Interview
Checkpoint Interview
Python Coding Interview
Garbage Collection Interview
Python Interview Questions for Five Years Experienced
LinkedIn Python 2022 Qualifying Assessment Answers
Top Coding Interview Questions on Arrays-C
Computer Network Viva Questions
Java 8 Multithreading Interview Questions


Web Interview


HTML Interview
CSS Interview
JavaScript Interview
jQuery Interview
AngularJS Interview
Angular Interview
Angular 7 Interview
Node.js Interview
AJAX Interview
XML Interview
Dojo Interview
Backbone.js Interview
Ember.js Interview
XHTML Interview
XSLT Interview
XPath Interview
XQuery Interview
XForms Interview
SASS Interview
CoffeeScript Interview
LESS Interview
Perl Interview
Pure.CSS Interview
Materialize Interview
Framework7 Interview
SVG Interview
SAP FICO Interview
Ab Initio Interview


PHP Interview


PHP Interview
Wordpress Interview
Joomla Interview
Drupal Interview
Magento Interview
CodeIgniter Interview
Phalcon Interview


.Net Interview


.Net Interview
C# Interview
ASP.NET Interview
ADO.NET Interview
WCF Interview
WPF Interview
Silverlight Interview
F# Interview


Java Interview


Java 1 Interview
Java 2 Interview
Multithreading 
Collections Interview
JDBC Interview
Servlet Interview
JSP Interview
EJB Interview
Struts Interview
Hibernate Interview
Spring Interview
Spring Boot Interview
Spring MVC Interview
JPA Interview
Maven Interview
JUnit Interview
JSF Interview
PrimeFaces Interview
RichFaces Interview
GWT Interview
JDB Interview
JOGL Interview
jBPM Interview
Jenkins Interview
Java Constructor Interview
Technical Architect Interview
Array Interview Questions
Java Generics Questions


Database Interview


DBMS Interview
SQL Interview
PL/SQL Interview
Oracle Interview
MySql Interview
SQL Server Interview
MongoDB Interview
Cassandra Interview
DB2 Interview
Access Interview
SQLite Interview
CouchDB Interview
Neo4j Interview
MariaDB Interview
PouchDB Interview
Redis Interview

















Machine Learning Interview Questions

A list of frequently asked machine learning interview questions and answers are given below.
1) What do you understand by Machine learning?
Machine learning is the form of Artificial Intelligence that deals with system programming and automates data analysis to enable computers to learn and act through experiences without being explicitly programmed.
For example, Robots are coded in such a way that they can perform the tasks based on data they collect from sensors. They automatically learn programs from data and improve with experiences.


2) Differentiate between inductive learning and deductive learning?
In inductive learning, the model learns by examples from a set of observed instances to draw a generalized conclusion. On the other side, in deductive learning, the model first applies the conclusion, and then the conclusion is drawn.

Inductive learning is the method of using observations to draw conclusions.
Deductive learning is the method of using conclusions to form observations.

For example, if we have to explain to a kid that playing with fire can cause burns. There are two ways we can explain this to a kid; we can show training examples of various fire accidents or images of burnt people and label them as "Hazardous". In this case, a kid will understand with the help of examples and not play with the fire. It is the form of Inductive machine learning. The other way to teach the same thing is to let the kid play with the fire and wait to see what happens. If the kid gets a burn, it will teach the kid not to play with fire and avoid going near it. It is the form of deductive learning.

3) What is the difference between Data Mining and Machine Learning?
Data mining can be described as the process in which the structured data tries to abstract knowledge or interesting unknown patterns. During this process, machine learning algorithms are used.
Machine learning represents the study, design, and development of the algorithms which provide the ability to the processors to learn without being explicitly programmed.

4) What is the meaning of Overfitting in Machine learning?
Overfitting can be seen in machine learning when a statistical model describes random error or noise instead of the underlying relationship. Overfitting is usually observed when a model is excessively complex. It happens because of having too many parameters concerning the number of training data types. The model displays poor performance, which has been overfitted.

5) Why overfitting occurs?
The possibility of overfitting occurs when the criteria used for training the model is not as per the criteria used to judge the efficiency of a model.

6) What is the method to avoid overfitting?
Overfitting occurs when we have a small dataset, and a model is trying to learn from it. By using a large amount of data, overfitting can be avoided. But if we have a small database and are forced to build a model based on that, then we can use a technique known as cross-validation. In this method, a model is usually given a dataset of a known data on which training data set is run and dataset of unknown data against which the model is tested. The primary aim of cross-validation is to define a dataset to "test" the model in the training phase. If there is sufficient data, 'Isotonic Regression' is used to prevent overfitting.

7) Differentiate supervised and unsupervised machine learning.

In supervised machine learning, the machine is trained using labeled data. Then a new dataset is given into the learning model so that the algorithm provides a positive outcome by analyzing the labeled data. For example, we first require to label the data which is necessary to train the model while performing classification.
In the unsupervised machine learning, the machine is not trained using labeled data and let the algorithms make the decisions without any corresponding output variables.


8) How does Machine Learning differ from Deep Learning?

Machine learning is all about algorithms which are used to parse data, learn from that data, and then apply whatever they have learned to make informed decisions.
Deep learning is a part of machine learning, which is inspired by the structure of the human brain and is particularly useful in feature detection.


9) How is KNN different from k-means?
KNN or K nearest neighbors is a supervised algorithm which is used for classification purpose. In KNN, a test sample is given as the class of the majority of its nearest neighbors. On the other side, K-means is an unsupervised algorithm which is mainly used for clustering. In k-means clustering, it needs a set of unlabeled points and a threshold only. The algorithm further takes unlabeled data and learns how to cluster it into groups by computing the mean of the distance between different unlabeled points.

10) What are the different types of Algorithm methods in Machine Learning?
The different types of algorithm methods in machine earning are:

Supervised Learning
Semi-supervised Learning
Unsupervised Learning
Transduction
Reinforcement Learning


11) What do you understand by Reinforcement Learning technique?
Reinforcement learning is an algorithm technique used in Machine Learning. It involves an agent that interacts with its environment by producing actions & discovering errors or rewards. Reinforcement learning is employed by different software and machines to search for the best suitable behavior or path it should follow in a specific situation. It usually learns on the basis of reward or penalty given for every action it performs.

12) What is the trade-off between bias and variance?
Both bias and variance are errors. Bias is an error due to erroneous or overly simplistic assumptions in the learning algorithm. It can lead to the model under-fitting the data, making it hard to have high predictive accuracy and generalize the knowledge from the training set to the test set.
Variance is an error due to too much complexity in the learning algorithm. It leads to the algorithm being highly sensitive to high degrees of variation in the training data, which can lead the model to overfit the data.
To optimally reduce the number of errors, we will need to tradeoff bias and variance.

13) How do classification and regression differ?


Classification
Regression



Classification is the task to predict a discrete class label.


Regression is the task to predict a continuous quantity.



In a classification problem, data is labeled into one of two or more classes.


A regression problem needs the prediction of a quantity.



A classification having problem with two classes is called binary classification, and more than two classes is called multi-class classification


A regression problem containing multiple input variables is called a multivariate regression problem.



Classifying an email as spam or non-spam is an example of a classification problem.


Predicting the price of a stock over a period of time is a regression problem.



14) What are the five popular algorithms we use in Machine Learning?
Five popular algorithms are:

Decision Trees
Probabilistic Networks
Neural Networks
Support Vector Machines
Nearest Neighbor


15) What do you mean by ensemble learning?
Numerous models, such as classifiers are strategically made and combined to solve a specific computational program which is known as ensemble learning. The ensemble methods are also known as committee-based learning or learning multiple classifier systems. It trains various hypotheses to fix the same issue. One of the most suitable examples of ensemble modeling is the random forest trees where several decision trees are used to predict outcomes. It is used to improve the classification, function approximation, prediction, etc. of a model.

16) What is a model selection in Machine Learning?
The process of choosing models among diverse mathematical models, which are used to define the same data is known as Model Selection. Model learning is applied to the fields of statistics, data mining, and machine learning.

17) What are the three stages of building the hypotheses or model in machine learning?
There are three stages to build hypotheses or model in machine learning:

Model building
It chooses a suitable algorithm for the model and trains it according to the requirement of the problem.
Applying the model
It is responsible for checking the accuracy of the model through the test data.
Model testing
It performs the required changes after testing and apply the final model.


18) What according to you, is the standard approach to supervised learning?
In supervised learning, the standard approach is to split the set of example into the training set and the test.

19) Describe 'Training set' and 'training Test'.
In various areas of information of machine learning, a set of data is used to discover the potentially predictive relationship, which is known as 'Training Set'. The training set is an example that is given to the learner. Besides, the 'Test set' is used to test the accuracy of the hypotheses generated by the learner. It is the set of instances held back from the learner. Thus, the training set is distinct from the test set.

20) What are the common ways to handle missing data in a dataset?
Missing data is one of the standard factors while working with data and handling. It is considered as one of the greatest challenges faced by the data analysts. There are many ways one can impute the missing values. Some of the common methods to handle missing data in datasets can be defined as deleting the rows, replacing with mean/median/mode, predicting the missing values, assigning a unique category, using algorithms that support missing values, etc.

21) What do you understand by ILP?
ILP stands for Inductive Logic Programming. It is a part of machine learning which uses logic programming. It aims at searching patterns in data which can be used to build predictive models. In this process, the logic programs are assumed as a hypothesis.

22) What are the necessary steps involved in Machine Learning Project?
There are several essential steps we must follow to achieve a good working model while doing a Machine Learning Project. Those steps may include parameter tuning, data preparation, data collection, training the model, model evaluation, and prediction, etc.

23) Describe Precision and Recall?
Precision and Recall both are the measures which are used in the information retrieval domain to measure how good an information retrieval system reclaims the related data as requested by the user.
Precision can be said as a positive predictive value. It is the fraction of relevant instances among the received instances.
On the other side, recall is the fraction of relevant instances that have been retrieved over the total amount or relevant instances. The recall is also known as sensitivity.

24) What do you understand by Decision Tree in Machine Learning?
Decision Trees can be defined as the Supervised Machine Learning, where the data is continuously split according to a certain parameter. It builds classification or regression models as similar as a tree structure, with datasets broken up into ever smaller subsets while developing the decision tree. The tree can be defined by two entities, namely decision nodes, and leaves. The leaves are the decisions or the outcomes, and the decision nodes are where the data is split. Decision trees can manage both categorical and numerical data.

25) What are the functions of Supervised Learning?

Classification
Speech Recognition
Regression
Predict Time Series
Annotate Strings


26) What are the functions of Unsupervised Learning?

Finding clusters of the data
Finding low-dimensional representations of the data
Finding interesting directions in data
Finding novel observations/ database cleaning
Finding interesting coordinates and correlations


27) What do you understand by algorithm independent machine learning?
Algorithm independent machine learning can be defined as machine learning, where mathematical foundations are independent of any particular classifier or learning algorithm.

28) Describe the classifier in machine learning.
A classifier is a case of a hypothesis or discrete-valued function which is used to assign class labels to particular data points. It is a system that inputs a vector of discrete or continuous feature values and outputs a single discrete value, the class.

29) What do you mean by Genetic Programming?
Genetic Programming (GP) is almost similar to an Evolutionary Algorithm, a subset of machine learning. Genetic programming software systems implement an algorithm that uses random mutation, a fitness function, crossover, and multiple generations of evolution to resolve a user-defined task. The genetic programming model is based on testing and choosing the best option among a set of results.

30) What is SVM in machine learning? What are the classification methods that SVM can handle?
SVM stands for Support Vector Machine. SVM are supervised learning models with an associated learning algorithm which analyze the data used for classification and regression analysis.
The classification methods that SVM can handle are:

Combining binary classifiers
Modifying binary to incorporate multiclass learning


31) How will you explain a linked list and an array?
An array is a datatype which is widely implemented as a default type, in almost all the modern programming languages. It is used to store data of a similar type.
But there are many use-cases where we don't know the quantity of data to be stored. For such cases, advanced data structures are required, and one such data structure is linked list.
There are some points which explain how the linked list is different from an array:


ARRAY
LINKED LIST



An array is a group of elements of a similar data type.

Linked List is an ordered group of elements of the same type, which are connected using pointers.



Elements are stored consecutively in the memory.

New elements can be stored anywhere in memory.



An Array supports Random Access. It means that the elements can be accessed directly using their index value, like arr[0] for 1st element, arr[5] for 6th element, etc.
As a result, accessing elements in an array is fast with constant time complexity of O(1).

Linked List supports Sequential Access. It means that we have to traverse the complete linked list, up to that element sequentially which element/node we want to access in a linked list.
To access the nth element of a linked list, the time complexity is O(n).



Memory is allocated at compile time as soon as the array is declared. It is known as Static Memory Allocation.

Memory is allocated at runtime, whenever a new node is added. It is known as Dynamic Memory Allocation.



Insertion and Deletion operation takes more time in the array, as the memory locations are consecutive and fixed.

In case of a linked list, a new element is stored at the first free available memory location.
Thus, Insertion and Deletion operations are fast in the linked list.



Size of the array must be declared at the time of array declaration.

Size of a Linked list is variable. It grows at runtime whenever nodes are added to it.



32) What do you understand by the Confusion Matrix?
A confusion matrix is a table which is used for summarizing the performance of a classification algorithm. It is also known as the error matrix.

Where,
TN= True Negative
TP= True Positive
FN= False Negative
FP= False Positive

33) Explain True Positive, True Negative, False Positive, and False Negative in Confusion Matrix with an example.

True Positive
When a model correctly predicts the positive class, it is said to be a true positive.
For example, Umpire gives a Batsman NOT OUT when he is NOT OUT.
True Negative
When a model correctly predicts the negative class, it is said to be a true negative.
For example, Umpire gives a Batsman OUT when he is OUT.
False Positive
When a model incorrectly predicts the positive class, it is said to be a false positive. It is also known as 'Type I' error.
For example, Umpire gives a Batsman NOT OUT when he is OUT.
False Negative
When a model incorrectly predicts the negative class, it is said to be a false negative. It is also known as 'Type II' error.
For example, Umpire gives a Batsman OUT when he is NOT OUT.


34) What according to you, is more important between model accuracy and model performance?
Model accuracy is a subset of model performance. The accuracy of the model is directly proportional to the performance of the model. Thus, better the performance of the model, more accurate are the predictions.

35) What is Bagging and Boosting?

Bagging is a process in ensemble learning which is used for improving unstable estimation or classification schemes.
Boosting methods are used sequentially to reduce the bias of the combined model.


36) What are the similarities and differences between bagging and boosting in Machine Learning?
Similarities of Bagging and Boosting

Both are the ensemble methods to get N learns from 1 learner.
Both generate several training data sets with random sampling.
Both generate the final result by taking the average of N learners.
Both reduce variance and provide higher scalability.

Differences between Bagging and Boosting

Although they are built independently, but for Bagging, Boosting tries to add new models which perform well where previous models fail.
Only Boosting determines the weight for the data to tip the scales in favor of the most challenging cases.
Only Boosting tries to reduce bias. Instead, Bagging may solve the problem of over-fitting while boosting can increase it.


37) What do you understand by Cluster Sampling?
Cluster Sampling is a process of randomly selecting intact groups within a defined population, sharing similar characteristics. Cluster sample is a probability where each sampling unit is a collection or cluster of elements.
For example, if we are clustering the total number of managers in a set of companies, in that case, managers (sample) will represent elements and companies will represent clusters.

38) What do you know about Bayesian Networks?
Bayesian Networks also referred to as 'belief networks' or 'casual networks', are used to represent the graphical model for probability relationship among a set of variables.
For example, a Bayesian network can be used to represent the probabilistic relationships between diseases and symptoms. As per the symptoms, the network can also compute the probabilities of the presence of various diseases.
Efficient algorithms can perform inference or learning in Bayesian networks. Bayesian networks which relate the variables (e.g., speech signals or protein sequences) are called dynamic Bayesian networks.

39) Which are the two components of Bayesian logic program?
A Bayesian logic program consists of two components:

Logical
It contains a set of Bayesian Clauses, which capture the qualitative structure of the domain.
Quantitative
It is used to encode quantitative information about the domain.


40) Describe dimension reduction in machine learning.
Dimension reduction is the process which is used to reduce the number of random variables under considerations.
Dimension reduction can be divided into feature selection and extraction.

41) Why instance-based learning algorithm sometimes referred to as Lazy learning algorithm?
In machine learning, lazy learning can be described as a method where induction and generalization processes are delayed until classification is performed. Because of the same property, an instance-based learning algorithm is sometimes called lazy learning algorithm.

42) What do you understand by the F1 score?
The F1 score represents the measurement of a model's performance. It is referred to as a weighted average of the precision and recall of a model. The results tending to 1 are considered as the best, and those tending to 0 are the worst. It could be used in classification tests, where true negatives don't matter much.

43) How is a decision tree pruned?
Pruning is said to occur in decision trees when the branches which may consist of weak predictive power are removed to reduce the complexity of the model and increase the predictive accuracy of a decision tree model. Pruning can occur bottom-up and top-down, with approaches such as reduced error pruning and cost complexity pruning.
Reduced error pruning is the simplest version, and it replaces each node. If it is unable to decrease predictive accuracy, one should keep it pruned. But, it usually comes pretty close to an approach that would optimize for maximum accuracy.

44) What are the Recommended Systems?
Recommended System is a sub-directory of information filtering systems. It predicts the preferences or rankings offered by a user to a product. According to the preferences, it provides similar recommendations to a user. Recommendation systems are widely used in movies, news, research articles, products, social tips, music, etc.

45) What do you understand by Underfitting?
Underfitting is an issue when we have a low error in both the training set and the testing set. Few algorithms work better for interpretations but fail for better predictions.

46) When does regularization become necessary in Machine Learning?
Regularization is necessary whenever the model begins to overfit/ underfit. It is a cost term for bringing in more features with the objective function. Hence, it tries to push the coefficients for many variables to zero and reduce cost term. It helps to reduce model complexity so that the model can become better at predicting (generalizing).

47) What is Regularization? What kind of problems does regularization solve?
A regularization is a form of regression, which constrains/ regularizes or shrinks the coefficient estimates towards zero. In other words, it discourages learning a more complex or flexible model to avoid the risk of overfitting. It reduces the variance of the model, without a substantial increase in its bias. 
Regularization is used to address overfitting problems as it penalizes the loss function by adding a multiple of an L1 (LASSO) or an L2 (Ridge) norm of weights vector w.

48) Why do we need to convert categorical variables into factor? Which functions are used to perform the conversion?
Most Machine learning algorithms require number as input. That is why we convert categorical values into factors to get numerical values. We also don't have to deal with dummy variables.
The functions factor() and as.factor() are used to convert variables into factors.

49) Do you think that treating a categorical variable as a continuous variable would result in a better predictive model?
For a better predictive model, the categorical variable can be considered as a continuous variable only when the variable is ordinal in nature.

50) How is machine learning used in day-to-day life?
Most of the people are already using machine learning in their everyday life. Assume that you are engaging with the internet, you are actually expressing your preferences, likes, dislikes through your searches. All these things are picked up by cookies coming on your computer, from this, the behavior of a user is evaluated. It helps to increase the progress of a user through the internet and provide similar suggestions.
The navigation system can also be considered as one of the examples where we are using machine learning to calculate a distance between two places using optimization techniques. Surely, people are going to more engage with machine learning in the near future.




Interview Tips
Job/HR Interview Questions
JavaScript Interview Questions
jQuery Interview Questions
Java Basics Interview Questions
Java OOPs Interview Questions
Servlet Interview Questions
JSP Interview Questions
Spring Interview QuestionsHibernate Interview Questions
PL/SQL Interview QuestionsSQL Interview Questions
Oracle Interview QuestionsAndroid Interview Questions
SQL Server Interview QuestionsMySQL Interview Questions







You may also like:

Java Interview Questions
SQL Interview Questions
Python Interview Questions
JavaScript Interview Questions
Angular Interview Questions
Selenium Interview Questions
Spring Boot Interview Questions
HR Interview Questions
C Programming Interview Questions
C++ Interview Questions
Data Structure Interview Questions
DBMS Interview Questions
HTML Interview Questions
IAS Interview Questions
Manual Testing Interview Questions
OOPs Interview Questions
.Net Interview Questions
C# Interview Questions
ReactJS Interview Questions
Networking Interview Questions
PHP Interview Questions
CSS Interview Questions
Node.js Interview Questions
Spring Interview Questions
Hibernate Interview Questions
AWS Interview Questions
Accounting Interview Questions



Learn Latest Tutorials



Splunk




SPSS




Swagger




Transact-SQL




Tumblr




ReactJS




Regex




Reinforcement Learning




R Programming




RxJS




React Native




Python Design Patterns




Python Pillow




Python Turtle




Keras






Preparation



Aptitude




Reasoning




Verbal Ability




Interview Questions




Company Questions






Trending Technologies



Artificial Intelligence




AWS




Selenium




Cloud Computing




Hadoop




ReactJS




Data Science




Angular 7




Blockchain




Git




Machine Learning




DevOps






B.Tech / MCA



DBMS




Data Structures




DAA




Operating System




Computer Network




Compiler Design




Computer Organization




Discrete Mathematics




Ethical Hacking




Computer Graphics




Software Engineering




Web Technology




Cyber Security




Automata




C Programming




C++




Java




.Net




Python




Programs




Control System




Data Mining




Data Warehouse
















 Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on h[email protected], to get more information about given services.  Website DesigningWebsite DevelopmentJava DevelopmentPHP DevelopmentWordPressGraphic DesigningLogoDigital MarketingOn Page and Off Page SEOPPCContent DevelopmentCorporate TrainingClassroom and Online TrainingData Entry  Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected]. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter        Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring TutorialOur WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.comOur ServicesWebsite DevelopmentAndroid DevelopmentWebsite DesigningDigital MarketingSummer TrainingIndustrial TrainingCollege Campus TrainingContactAddress: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3Noida, UP, 201301, IndiaContact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemapAbout Me© Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.







