Top 45 Machine Learning Interview Questions (2023) | Simplilearn
All Courses Log inAI & Machine LearningData Science & Business AnalyticsAI & Machine LearningProject ManagementCyber SecurityCloud ComputingDevOpsBusiness and LeadershipQuality ManagementSoftware DevelopmentAgile and ScrumIT Service and ArchitectureDigital MarketingBig DataCareer Fast-trackEnterpriseOther SegmentsTutorialsArticlesEbooksFree Practice TestsOn-demand WebinarsLive WebinarsHomeResourcesAI & Machine LearningMachine Learning Tutorial: A Step-by-Step Guide for BeginnersTop 45 Machine Learning Interview Questions & Answers 2023Tutorial PlaylistMachine Learning Tutorial: A Step-by-Step Guide for BeginnersOverviewAn Introduction To Machine LearningLesson - 1What is Machine Learning and How Does It Work?Lesson - 2Machine Learning Steps: A Complete GuideLesson - 3Top 10 Machine Learning Applications in 2023Lesson - 4An Introduction to the Types Of Machine LearningLesson - 5Supervised and Unsupervised Learning in Machine LearningLesson - 6Everything You Need to Know About Feature SelectionLesson - 7Linear Regression in PythonLesson - 8Everything You Need to Know About Classification in Machine LearningLesson - 9An Introduction to Logistic Regression in PythonLesson - 10Understanding the Difference Between Linear vs. Logistic RegressionLesson - 11The Best Guide On How To Implement Decision Tree In PythonLesson - 12Random Forest AlgorithmLesson - 13Understanding Naive Bayes ClassifierLesson - 14The Best Guide to Confusion MatrixLesson - 15How to Leverage KNN Algorithm in Machine Learning?Lesson - 16K-Means Clustering Algorithm: Applications, Types, Demos and Use CasesLesson - 17PCA in Machine Learning: Your Complete Guide to Principal Component AnalysisLesson - 18What is Cost Function in Machine LearningLesson - 19The Ultimate Guide to Cross-Validation in Machine LearningLesson - 20An Easy Guide to Stock Price Prediction Using Machine LearningLesson - 21What Is Reinforcement Learning? The Best Guide To Reinforcement LearningLesson - 22What Is Q-Learning? The Best Guide to Understand Q-LearningLesson - 23The Best Guide to Regularization in Machine LearningLesson - 24Everything You Need to Know About Bias and VarianceLesson - 25The Complete Guide on Overfitting and Underfitting in Machine LearningLesson - 26Mathematics for Machine Learning - Important Skills You Must PossessLesson - 27A One-Stop Guide to Statistics for Machine LearningLesson - 28Embarking on a Machine Learning Career? Here’s All You Need to KnowLesson - 29How to Become a Machine Learning Engineer?Lesson - 30Top 45 Machine Learning Interview Questions and Answers for 2023Lesson - 31Explaining the Concepts of Quantum ComputingLesson - 32Supervised Machine Learning: All You Need to KnowLesson - 33Top 45 Machine Learning Interview Questions & Answers 2023Lesson 31 of 33By Eshna VermaLast updated on Apr 24, 2023592143PreviousNextTutorial Playlist Machine Learning Tutorial: A Step-by-Step Guide for BeginnersOverviewAn Introduction To Machine LearningLesson - 1What is Machine Learning and How Does It Work?Lesson - 2Machine Learning Steps: A Complete GuideLesson - 3Top 10 Machine Learning Applications in 2023Lesson - 4An Introduction to the Types Of Machine LearningLesson - 5Supervised and Unsupervised Learning in Machine LearningLesson - 6Everything You Need to Know About Feature SelectionLesson - 7Linear Regression in PythonLesson - 8Everything You Need to Know About Classification in Machine LearningLesson - 9An Introduction to Logistic Regression in PythonLesson - 10Understanding the Difference Between Linear vs. Logistic RegressionLesson - 11The Best Guide On How To Implement Decision Tree In PythonLesson - 12Random Forest AlgorithmLesson - 13Understanding Naive Bayes ClassifierLesson - 14The Best Guide to Confusion MatrixLesson - 15How to Leverage KNN Algorithm in Machine Learning?Lesson - 16K-Means Clustering Algorithm: Applications, Types, Demos and Use CasesLesson - 17PCA in Machine Learning: Your Complete Guide to Principal Component AnalysisLesson - 18What is Cost Function in Machine LearningLesson - 19The Ultimate Guide to Cross-Validation in Machine LearningLesson - 20An Easy Guide to Stock Price Prediction Using Machine LearningLesson - 21What Is Reinforcement Learning? The Best Guide To Reinforcement LearningLesson - 22What Is Q-Learning? The Best Guide to Understand Q-LearningLesson - 23The Best Guide to Regularization in Machine LearningLesson - 24Everything You Need to Know About Bias and VarianceLesson - 25The Complete Guide on Overfitting and Underfitting in Machine LearningLesson - 26Mathematics for Machine Learning - Important Skills You Must PossessLesson - 27A One-Stop Guide to Statistics for Machine LearningLesson - 28Embarking on a Machine Learning Career? Here’s All You Need to KnowLesson - 29How to Become a Machine Learning Engineer?Lesson - 30Top 45 Machine Learning Interview Questions and Answers for 2023Lesson - 31Explaining the Concepts of Quantum ComputingLesson - 32Supervised Machine Learning: All You Need to KnowLesson - 33Table of ContentsView More Companies are striving to make information and services more accessible to people by adopting new-age technologies like artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning. One can witness the growing adoption of these technologies in industrial sectors like banking, finance, retail, manufacturing, healthcare, and more.
Data scientists, artificial intelligence engineers, machine learning engineers, and data analysts are some of the in-demand organizational roles that are embracing AI. If you aspire to apply for these types of jobs, it is crucial to know the kind of machine learning interview questions that recruiters and hiring managers may ask. 
This article takes you through some of the machine learning interview questions and answers, that you’re likely to encounter on your way to achieving your dream job.
Caltech AI & Machine Learning BootcampAdvance Your AI & ML Career With Our BootcampEnroll Now
Top Machine Learning Interview Questions
Let's start with some commonly asked machine learning interview questions and answers.
1. What Are the Different Types of Machine Learning?
There are three types of machine learning:
Supervised Learning
In supervised machine learning, a model makes predictions or decisions based on past or labeled data. Labeled data refers to sets of data that are given tags or labels, and thus made more meaningful.

Unsupervised Learning
In unsupervised learning, we don't have labeled data. A model can identify patterns, anomalies, and relationships in the input data.

Reinforcement Learning
Using reinforcement learning, the model can learn based on the rewards it received for its previous action.

Consider an environment where an agent is working. The agent is given a target to achieve. Every time the agent takes some action toward the target, it is given positive feedback. And, if the action taken is going away from the goal, the agent is given negative feedback. 
Also Read: Supervised and Unsupervised Learning in Machine Learning
2. What is Overfitting, and How Can You Avoid It? 
The Overfitting is a situation that occurs when a model learns the training set too well, taking up random fluctuations in the training data as concepts. These impact the model’s ability to generalize and don’t apply to new data. 
When a model is given the training data, it shows 100 percent accuracy—technically a slight loss. But, when we use the test data, there may be an error and low efficiency. This condition is known as overfitting.
There are multiple ways of avoiding overfitting, such as:

Regularization. It involves a cost term for the features involved with the objective function
Making a simple model. With lesser variables and parameters, the variance can be reduced 
Cross-validation methods like k-folds can also be used
If some model parameters are likely to cause overfitting, techniques for regularization like LASSO can be used that penalize these parameters

Also Read: Overfitting and Underfitting in Machine Learning
Free Statistics Class from IIT KanpurFree Webinar | 31 May, Wednesday | 9 PM ISTRegister Now
3. What is ‘training Set’ and ‘test Set’ in a Machine Learning Model? How Much Data Will You Allocate for Your Training, Validation, and Test Sets?
There is a three-step process followed to create a model:

Train the model
Test the model 
Deploy the model




Training Set
Test Set




The training set is examples given to the model to analyze and learn
70% of the total data is typically taken as the training dataset
This is labeled data used to train the model




The test set is used to test the accuracy of the hypothesis generated by the model
Remaining 30% is taken as testing dataset
We test without labeled data and then verify results with labels





Consider a case where you have labeled data for 1,000 records. One way to train the model is to expose all 1,000 records during the training process. Then you take a small set of the same data to test the model, which would give good results in this case.
But, this is not an accurate way of testing. So, we set aside a portion of that data called the ‘test set’ before starting the training process. The remaining data is called the ‘training set’ that we use for training the model. The training set passes through the model multiple times until the accuracy is high, and errors are minimized.

Now, we pass the test data to check if the model can accurately predict the values and determine if training is effective. If you get errors, you either need to change your model or retrain it with more data.

Regarding the question of how to split the data into a training set and test set, there is no fixed rule, and the ratio can vary based on individual preferences. 
4. How Do You Handle Missing or Corrupted Data in a Dataset?
One of the easiest ways to handle missing or corrupted data is to drop those rows or columns or replace them entirely with some other value.
There are two useful methods in Pandas:

IsNull() and dropna() will help to find the columns/rows with missing data and drop them
Fillna() will replace the wrong values with a placeholder value


5. How Can You Choose a Classifier Based on a Training Set Data Size?
When the training set is small, a model that has a right bias and low variance seems to work better because they are less likely to overfit. 
For example, Naive Bayes works best when the training set is large. Models with low bias and high variance tend to perform better as they work fine with complex relationships.
PCP in AI and Machine LearningIn Partnership with Purdue UniversityExplore Course
6. Explain the Confusion Matrix with Respect to Machine Learning Algorithms.
A confusion matrix (or error matrix) is a specific table that is used to measure the performance of an algorithm. It is mostly used in supervised learning; in unsupervised learning, it’s called the matching matrix.
The confusion matrix has two parameters:

Actual
Predicted 

It also has identical sets of features in both of these dimensions.
Consider a confusion matrix (binary matrix) shown below:

Here,
For actual values:
Total Yes = 12+1 = 13
Total No = 3+9 = 12 
Similarly, for predicted values:
Total Yes = 12+3 = 15
Total No = 1+9 = 10 
For a model to be accurate, the values across the diagonals should be high. The total sum of all the values in the matrix equals the total observations in the test data set. 
For the above matrix, total observations = 12+3+1+9 = 25
Now, accuracy = sum of the values across the diagonal/total dataset
= (12+9) / 25
= 21 / 25
= 84%
7. What Is a False Positive and False Negative and How Are They Significant?
False positives are those cases that wrongly get classified as True but are False. 
False negatives are those cases that wrongly get classified as False but are True.
In the term ‘False Positive,’ the word ‘Positive’ refers to the ‘Yes’ row of the predicted value in the confusion matrix. The complete term indicates that the system has predicted it as a positive, but the actual value is negative. 

So, looking at the confusion matrix, we get:
False-positive = 3
True positive = 12
Similarly, in the term ‘False Negative,’ the word ‘Negative’ refers to the ‘No’ row of the predicted value in the confusion matrix. And the complete term indicates that the system has predicted it as negative, but the actual value is positive.
So, looking at the confusion matrix, we get:
False Negative = 1
True Negative = 9
8. What Are the Three Stages of Building a Model in Machine Learning?
The three stages of building a machine learning model are:


Model Building
Choose a suitable algorithm for the model and train it according to the requirement 

Model Testing
Check the accuracy of the model through the test data 

Applying the Model
Make the required changes after testing and use the final model for real-time projects

Here, it’s important to remember that once in a while, the model needs to be checked to make sure it’s working correctly. It should be modified to make sure that it is up-to-date.
Free Course: Introduction to ML with RMaster Machine learning with R BasicsEnroll Now
9. What is Deep Learning?
The Deep learning is a subset of machine learning that involves systems that think and learn like humans using artificial neural networks. The term ‘deep’ comes from the fact that you can have several layers of neural networks. 
One of the primary differences between machine learning and deep learning is that feature engineering is done manually in machine learning. In the case of deep learning, the model consisting of neural networks will automatically determine which features to use (and which not to use). 
This is a commonly asked question asked in both Machine Learning Interviews as well as Deep Learning Interview Questions
10. What Are the Differences Between Machine Learning and Deep Learning?
Learn more: Difference Between AI,ML and Deep Learning



Machine Learning 
Deep Learning




Enables machines to take decisions on their own, based on past data
It needs only a small amount of data for training
Works well on the low-end system, so you don't need large machines 
Most features need to be identified in advance and manually coded
The problem is divided into two parts and solved individually and then combined




Enables machines to take decisions with the help of artificial neural networks
It needs a large amount of training data 
Needs high-end machines because it requires a lot of computing power 
The machine learns the features from the data it is provided
The problem is solved in an end-to-end manner





11. What Are the Applications of Supervised Machine Learning in Modern Businesses?
Applications of supervised machine learning include:


Email Spam Detection
Here we train the model using historical data that consists of emails categorized as spam or not spam. This labeled information is fed as input to the model.

Healthcare Diagnosis
By providing images regarding a disease, a model can be trained to detect if a person is suffering from the disease or not.

Sentiment Analysis
This refers to the process of using algorithms to mine documents and determine whether they’re positive, neutral, or negative in sentiment. 

Fraud Detection
By training the model to identify suspicious patterns, we can detect instances of possible fraud.

Related Interview Questions and Answers
AI | Data Science
12. What is Semi-supervised Machine Learning?
Supervised learning uses data that is completely labeled, whereas unsupervised learning uses no training data.
In the case of semi-supervised learning, the training data contains a small amount of labeled data and a large amount of unlabeled data.

13. What Are Unsupervised Machine Learning Techniques? 
There are two techniques used in unsupervised learning: clustering and association.
Clustering
Clustering problems involve data to be divided into subsets. These subsets, also called clusters, contain data that are similar to each other. Different clusters reveal different details about the objects, unlike classification or regression.

Association
In an association problem, we identify patterns of associations between different variables or items.
For example, an e-commerce website can suggest other items for you to buy, based on the prior purchases that you have made, spending habits, items in your wishlist, other customers’ purchase habits, and so on.

14. What is the Difference Between Supervised and Unsupervised Machine Learning?

Supervised learning - This model learns from the labeled data and makes a future prediction as output 
Unsupervised learning - This model uses unlabeled input data and allows the algorithm to act on that information without guidance.

Free Course: Programming FundamentalsLearn the Basics of ProgrammingEnroll Now
15. What is the Difference Between Inductive Machine Learning and Deductive Machine Learning? 



Inductive Learning
Deductive Learning




It observes instances based on defined principles to draw a conclusion
Example: Explaining to a child to keep away from the fire by showing a video where fire causes damage




It concludes experiences
Example: Allow the child to play with fire. If he or she gets burned, they will learn that it is dangerous and will refrain from making the same mistake again





16. Compare K-means and KNN Algorithms.



K-means
KNN




K-Means is unsupervised
K-Means is a clustering algorithm
The points in each cluster are similar to each other, and each cluster is different from its neighboring clusters




KNN is supervised in nature
KNN is a classification algorithm
It classifies an unlabeled observation based on its K (can be any number) surrounding neighbors





17. What Is ‘naive’ in the Naive Bayes Classifier?
The classifier is called ‘naive’ because it makes assumptions that may or may not turn out to be correct. 
The algorithm assumes that the presence of one feature of a class is not related to the presence of any other feature (absolute independence of features), given the class variable.
For instance, a fruit may be considered to be a cherry if it is red in color and round in shape, regardless of other features. This assumption may or may not be right (as an apple also matches the description).
18. Explain How a System Can Play a Game of Chess Using Reinforcement Learning.
Reinforcement learning has an environment and an agent. The agent performs some actions to achieve a specific goal. Every time the agent performs a task that is taking it towards the goal, it is rewarded. And, every time it takes a step that goes against that goal or in the reverse direction, it is penalized. 
Earlier, chess programs had to determine the best moves after much research on numerous factors. Building a machine designed to play such games would require many rules to be specified. 
With reinforced learning, we don’t have to deal with this problem as the learning agent learns by playing the game. It will make a move (decision), check if it’s the right move (feedback), and keep the outcomes in memory for the next step it takes (learning). There is a reward for every correct decision the system takes and punishment for the wrong one. 
19. How Will You Know Which Machine Learning Algorithm to Choose for Your Classification Problem?
While there is no fixed rule to choose an algorithm for a classification problem, you can follow these guidelines:

If accuracy is a concern, test different algorithms and cross-validate them
If the training dataset is small, use models that have low variance and high bias
If the training dataset is large, use models that have high variance and little bias

20. How is Amazon Able to Recommend Other Things to Buy? How Does the Recommendation Engine Work?
Once a user buys something from Amazon, Amazon stores that purchase data for future reference and finds products that are most likely also to be bought, it is possible because of the Association algorithm, which can identify patterns in a given dataset. 

Free Course: Machine Learning AlgorithmsLearn the Basics of Machine Learning AlgorithmsEnroll Now
21. When Will You Use Classification over Regression?
Classification is used when your target is categorical, while regression is used when your target variable is continuous. Both classification and regression belong to the category of supervised machine learning algorithms. 
Examples of classification problems include:

Predicting yes or no
Estimating gender
Breed of an animal
Type of color

Examples of regression problems include:

Estimating sales and price of a product
Predicting the score of a team
Predicting the amount of rainfall

22. How Do You Design an Email Spam Filter?
Building a spam filter involves the following process:

The email spam filter will be fed with thousands of emails 
Each of these emails already has a label: ‘spam’ or ‘not spam.’
The supervised machine learning algorithm will then determine which type of emails are being marked as spam based on spam words like the lottery, free offer, no money, full refund, etc.
The next time an email is about to hit your inbox, the spam filter will use statistical analysis and algorithms like Decision Trees and SVM to determine how likely the email is spam
If the likelihood is high, it will label it as spam, and the email won’t hit your inbox
Based on the accuracy of each model, we will use the algorithm with the highest accuracy after testing all the models


23. What is a Random Forest?
A ‘random forest’ is a supervised machine learning algorithm that is generally used for classification problems. It operates by constructing multiple decision trees during the training phase. The random forest chooses the decision of the majority of the trees as the final decision. 

24. Considering a Long List of Machine Learning Algorithms, given a Data Set, How Do You Decide Which One to Use?
There is no master algorithm for all situations. Choosing an algorithm depends on the following questions:

How much data do you have, and is it continuous or categorical?
Is the problem related to classification, association, clustering, or regression?
Predefined variables (labeled), unlabeled, or mix?
What is the goal?

Based on the above questions, the following algorithms can be used:


FREE Machine Learning Certification CourseTo become a Machine Learning EngineerExplore Course
25. What is Bias and Variance in a Machine Learning Model?
Bias
Bias in a machine learning model occurs when the predicted values are further from the actual values. Low bias indicates a model where the prediction values are very close to the actual ones.
Underfitting: High bias can cause an algorithm to miss the relevant relations between features and target outputs. 
Variance
Variance refers to the amount the target model will change when trained with different training data. For a good model, the variance should be minimized. 
Overfitting: High variance can cause an algorithm to model the random noise in the training data rather than the intended outputs.
26. What is the Trade-off Between Bias and Variance?
The bias-variance decomposition essentially decomposes the learning error from any algorithm by adding the bias, variance, and a bit of irreducible error due to noise in the underlying dataset. 
Necessarily, if you make the model more complex and add more variables, you’ll lose bias but gain variance. To get the optimally-reduced amount of error, you’ll have to trade off bias and variance. Neither high bias nor high variance is desired.
High bias and low variance algorithms train models that are consistent, but inaccurate on average.
High variance and low bias algorithms train models that are accurate but inconsistent. 
27. Define Precision and Recall.
Precision
Precision is the ratio of several events you can correctly recall to the total number of events you recall (mix of correct and wrong recalls).
Precision = (True Positive) / (True Positive + False Positive)
Recall
A recall is the ratio of the number of events you can recall the number of total events.
Recall = (True Positive) / (True Positive + False Negative)
28. What is a Decision Tree Classification?
A decision tree builds classification (or regression) models as a tree structure, with datasets broken up into ever-smaller subsets while developing the decision tree, literally in a tree-like way with branches and nodes. Decision trees can handle both categorical and numerical data. 
29. What is Pruning in Decision Trees, and How Is It Done?
Pruning is a technique in machine learning that reduces the size of decision trees. It reduces the complexity of the final classifier, and hence improves predictive accuracy by the reduction of overfitting. 
Pruning can occur in:

Top-down fashion. It will traverse nodes and trim subtrees starting at the root
Bottom-up fashion. It will begin at the leaf nodes

There is a popular pruning algorithm called reduced error pruning, in which:

Starting at the leaves, each node is replaced with its most popular class
If the prediction accuracy is not affected, the change is kept
There is an advantage of simplicity and speed

30. Briefly Explain Logistic Regression.
Logistic regression is a classification algorithm used to predict a binary outcome for a given set of independent variables. 
The output of logistic regression is either a 0 or 1 with a threshold value of generally 0.5. Any value above 0.5 is considered as 1, and any point below 0.5 is considered as 0.

31. Explain the K Nearest Neighbor Algorithm. 
K nearest neighbor algorithm is a classification algorithm that works in a way that a new data point is assigned to a neighboring group to which it is most similar. 
In K nearest neighbors, K can be an integer greater than 1. So, for every new data point, we want to classify, we compute to which neighboring group it is closest. 
Let us classify an object using the following example. Consider there are three clusters:

Football
Basketball 
Tennis ball


Let the new data point to be classified is a black ball. We use KNN to classify it. Assume K = 5 (initially). 
Next, we find the K (five) nearest data points, as shown.

Observe that all five selected points do not belong to the same cluster. There are three tennis balls and one each of basketball and football. 
When multiple classes are involved, we prefer the majority. Here the majority is with the tennis ball, so the new data point is assigned to this cluster.
32. What is a Recommendation System?
Anyone who has used Spotify or shopped at Amazon will recognize a recommendation system: It’s an information filtering system that predicts what a user might want to hear or see based on choice patterns provided by the user.
33. What is Kernel SVM?
Kernel SVM is the abbreviated version of the kernel support vector machine. Kernel methods are a class of algorithms for pattern analysis, and the most common one is the kernel SVM.
34. What Are Some Methods of Reducing Dimensionality?
You can reduce dimensionality by combining features with feature engineering, removing collinear features, or using algorithmic dimensionality reduction.
Now that you have gone through these machine learning interview questions, you must have got an idea of your strengths and weaknesses in this domain.
35. What is Principal Component Analysis?
Principal Component Analysis or PCA is a multivariate statistical technique that is used for analyzing quantitative data. The objective of PCA is to reduce higher dimensional data to lower dimensions, remove noise, and extract crucial information such as features and attributes from large amounts of data.
36. What do you understand by the F1 score?
The F1 score is a metric that combines both Precision and Recall. It is also the weighted average of precision and recall. 
The F1 score can be calculated using the below formula:
F1 = 2 * (P * R) / (P + R)
The F1 score is one when both Precision and Recall scores are one.
37. What do you understand by Type I vs Type II error?
Type I Error: Type I error occurs when the null hypothesis is true and we reject it.
Type II Error: Type II error occurs when the null hypothesis is false and we accept it.

38. Explain Correlation and Covariance?
Correlation: Correlation tells us how strongly two random variables are related to each other. It takes values between -1 to +1. 
Formula to calculate Correlation:

Covariance: Covariance tells us the direction of the linear relationship between two random variables. It can take any value between - ∞ and + ∞.
Formula to calculate Covariance:

39. What are Support Vectors in SVM?
Support Vectors are data points that are nearest to the hyperplane. It influences the position and orientation of the hyperplane. Removing the support vectors will alter the position of the hyperplane. The support vectors help us build our support vector machine model.

40. What is Ensemble learning?
Ensemble learning is a combination of the results obtained from multiple machine learning models to increase the accuracy for improved decision-making. 
Example: A Random Forest with 100 trees can provide much better results than using just one decision tree.

41. What is Cross-Validation?
Cross-Validation in Machine Learning is a statistical resampling technique that uses different parts of the dataset to train and test a machine learning algorithm on different iterations. The aim of cross-validation is to test the model’s ability to predict a new set of data that was not used to train the model. Cross-validation avoids the overfitting of data.
K-Fold Cross Validation is the most popular resampling technique that divides the whole dataset into K sets of equal sizes.
42. What are the different methods to split a tree in a decision tree algorithm?
Variance: Splitting the nodes of a decision tree using the variance is done when the target variable is continuous.

Information Gain: Splitting the nodes of a decision tree using Information Gain is preferred when the target variable is categorical.

Gini Impurity: Splitting the nodes of a decision tree using Gini Impurity is followed when the target variable is categorical.

43. How does the Support Vector Machine algorithm handle self-learning? 
The SVM algorithm has a learning rate and expansion rate which takes care of self-learning. The learning rate compensates or penalizes the hyperplanes for making all the incorrect moves while the expansion rate handles finding the maximum separation area between different classes.
44. What are the assumptions you need to take before starting with linear regression?
There are primarily 5 assumptions for a Linear Regression model:

Multivariate normality
No auto-correlation
Homoscedasticity
Linear relationship
No or little multicollinearity

45. What is the difference between Lasso and Ridge regression?
Lasso(also known as L1) and Ridge(also known as L2) regression are two popular regularization techniques that are used to avoid overfitting of data. These methods are used to penalize the coefficients to find the optimum solution and reduce complexity. The Lasso regression works by penalizing the sum of the absolute values of the coefficients. In Ridge or L2 regression, the penalty function is determined by the sum of the squares of the coefficients.
Looking forward to a successful career in AI and Machine learning. Enrol in our Artificial Intelligence Course in collaboration with Caltech University now.
Become Part of the Machine Learning Talent Pool
With technology ramping up, jobs in the field of data science and AI will continue to be in demand. Candidates who upgrade their skills and become well-versed in these emerging technologies can find many job opportunities with impressive salaries. Looking forward to becoming a Machine Learning Engineer? Enroll in Simplilearn's Caltech Post Graduate Program in AI & ML and get certified today. Based on your experience level, you may be asked to demonstrate your skills in machine learning, additionally, but this depends mostly on the role you’re pursuing. These machine learning interview questions and answers will prepare you to clear your interview on the first attempt!
Apart from the above mentioned interview questions, it is also important to have a fair understanding of frequently asked Data Science interview questions.
Considering this trend, Simplilearn offers Caltech Post Graduate Program in AI & ML certification course to help you gain a firm hold of machine learning concepts. This course is well-suited for those at the intermediate level, including:

Analytics managers
Business analysts
Information architects
Developers looking to become data scientists
Graduates seeking a career in data science and machine learning

Facing the machine learning interview questions would become much easier after you complete this course.


Find our Post Graduate Program in AI and Machine Learning Online Bootcamp in top cities:NameDatePlace Post Graduate Program in AI and Machine Learning Cohort starts on 19th Jun 2023,   Weekend batchYour CityView Details Professional Certificate Program in AI and Machine Learning, Chicago Cohort starts on 7th Jul 2023,   Weekend batchChicagoView DetailsAbout the AuthorEshna VermaEshna writes on PMP, PRINCE2, ITIL, ITSM, & Ethical Hacking. She has done her Masters in Journalism and Mass Communication and is a Gold Medalist in the same. A voracious reader, she has penned several articles in leading national newspapers like TOI, HT, and The Telegraph. She loves travelling and photography.View MoreRecommended ProgramsPost Graduate Program in AI and Machine Learning 4811 LearnersLifetime Access**Lifetime access to high-quality, self-paced e-learning content.Explore CategoryFind Post Graduate Program in AI and Machine Learning  in these citiesProfessional Certificate Program In AI And Machine Learning, AtlantaProfessional Certificate Program in AI and Machine Learning, AustinProfessional Certificate Program in AI and Machine Learning, BostonProfessional Certificate Program in AI and Machine Learning, CharlotteProfessional Certificate Program in AI and Machine Learning, ChicagoProfessional Certificate Program in AI and Machine Learning, DallasProfessional Certificate Program in AI and Machine Learning, HoustonProfessional Certificate Program in AI and Machine Learning, Los AngelesProfessional Certificate Program in AI and Machine Learning, NYCProfessional Certificate Program in AI and Machine Learning, San FranciscoProfessional Certificate Program in AI and Machine Learning, San JoseProfessional Certificate Program in AI and Machine Learning, SeattleProfessional Certificate Program in AI and Machine Learning, TampaProfessional Certificate Program in AI and Machine Learning, Washington, D.C.Recommended ResourcesFrequently asked Deep Learning Interview Questions and AnswersTutorialMachine Learning Interview GuideEbookMachine Learning Cheat Sheet: The Complete Guide for Machine Learning BeginnersArticleAn Introduction to the Types Of Machine LearningTutorialAn Introduction To Machine LearningTutorialDeep Learning Interview GuideEbookprevNext

© 2009 -2023- Simplilearn SolutionsFollow us!Refer and EarnCompany About usCareers Newsroom Alumni speak Grievance redressalContact usWork with us Become an instructorBlog as guestDiscoverSkillupSkillup SitemapResourcesRSS feedCity SitemapFor BusinessesCorporate trainingPartnersDigital TransformationGovernmentLearn On the Go!Get the Android AppGet the iOS AppTrending Post Graduate ProgramsProject Management Certification Course | Cyber Security Certification Course | Lean Six Sigma Certification Course | PG in Data Science | Data Analytics Program | AI and ML Course | Business Analysis Certification Course | Data Engineering Certification Courses | Digital Marketing Certification Program | Digital Transformation Certification Course | Supply Chain Management Course | DevOps Certification CourseTrending Bootcamp ProgramsCoding Bootcamp | Data Science Bootcamp | Data Analytics Bootcamp | Business Analytics Bootcamp | AI and Machine Learning Bootcamp | Cloud Computing Bootcamp | Digital Marketing Bootcamp | Product Management Bootcamp | UI UX BootcampTrending Master ProgramsPMP Plus Certification Training Course | Data Science Certifiation Course | Data Analyst Course | Masters in Artificial Intelligence | Cloud Architect Certification Training Course | DevOps Engineer Certification Training Course | Digital Marketing Course | Cyber Security Expert Course | MEAN Stack Developer Course | Business Analyst CourseTrending CoursesPMP Certification Training Course | CSM Certification Course | Data Science with Python Course | TOGAF Certification Course | ITIL 4 Foundation Certification Training Course | CISSP Certification Training | Big Data Hadoop CourseTrending ResourcesPython Tutorial | JavaScript Tutorial | Java Tutorial | Angular Tutorial | Node.js Tutorial | Docker Tutorial | Git Tutorial | Kubernetes Tutorial | Power BI Tutorial | CSS TutorialOKTerms of UsePrivacy PolicyRefund PolicyReschedule Policy© 2009-2023 - Simplilearn Solutions. All Rights Reserved. The certification names are the trademarks of their respective owners.smpl_2023-06-05DisclaimerPMP, PMI, PMBOK, CAPM, PgMP, PfMP, ACP, PBA, RMP, SP, and OPM3 are registered marks of the Project Management Institute, Inc.








InterviewBit




















          Practice
        

  
        Resources
        






Interview Guides



All Problems



Fast Track Courses



Community



Blog





Interview Preparation Kit





          Contests
        

  
        Online IDE
        

            New 
            








Online C++ Compiler




Online C Compiler




Online Python Compiler




Online Java Compiler




Online JavaScript Compiler





  
        Free Mock
        






                Powered By 


Free Mock Assessment
Take popular mock tests for free with real life interview questions from top tech companies
Explore Mock Tests  



                Powered By 


Mock Interview
Pair up with a peer like you and practise with hand-picked questions
Explore Mock Interviews  





          Events
             New 


          Scaler
        































 




                  Profile
                



                  Settings
                



                  Help Requests
                







 
































Profile


Settings


Help Requests






















      Login to experience InterviewBit
       


      Sign in
    






























 




                  Profile
                



                  Settings
                



                  Help Requests
                







 















Profile


Settings


Help Requests






















      Login to experience InterviewBit
       


      Sign in
    







              Practice
              
                Improve your coding skills with our resources
              









              Resources
              
                Experience learning
              


 




Interview Guides



All Problems



Fast Track Courses



Community



Blog





Interview Preparation Kit


 





              Contests
              
                Compete in popular contests with top coders
              









              Online IDE
              
                Checkout our improved IDE
              


 





Online C++ Compiler




Online C Compiler




Online Python Compiler




Online Java Compiler




Online JavaScript Compiler


 






              Free Mock
              
                Assess yourself and prepare for interviews
              


 




Free Mock Assessment



Mock Interview


 




              Events
              
                Attend free live masterclass hosted by top tech professionals
              

 New 







              Scaler
              
                Explore Offerings by SCALER
              

































      Click here to start solving coding interview questions
    


























































Unlock the complete InterviewBit experience for free


        Sign Up Using
        























      Or use email
    


1 Million + 
        Strong Tech Community
      

500 +
        Questions to Practice
      

100 +
        Expert Interview Guides
      

















Free Mock Assessment

Powered By 
















    Fill up the details for personalised experience.
  

 All fields are mandatory 
























    Current Employer
      *










        Enter company name
          *












      Type to search
    





      No results found
    















    Graduation Year
      *










        Select an option
          *












      Type to search
    


  
        1993



  
        1994



  
        1995



  
        1996



  
        1997



  
        1998



  
        1999



  
        2000



  
        2001



  
        2002



  
        2003



  
        2004



  
        2005



  
        2006



  
        2007



  
        2008



  
        2009



  
        2010



  
        2011



  
        2012



  
        2013



  
        2014



  
        2015



  
        2016



  
        2017



  
        2018



  
        2019



  
        2020



  
        2021



  
        2022



  
        2023



  
        2024



  
        2025



  
        2026



  
        2027



  
        2028






      No results found
    
















    Phone Number
      *


      OTP will be sent to this number for verification
    












        +91
          *












      Type to search
    




 


                +91
              






      No results found
    






 Phone Number 



Change Number


















                














    Phone Number
      *


      OTP will be sent to this number for verification
    












        +91
          *












      Type to search
    




 


                +91
              






      No results found
    






 Phone Number 



Change Number












    Graduation Year
      *










        Graduation Year
          *












      Type to search
    


  
        1993



  
        1994



  
        1995



  
        1996



  
        1997



  
        1998



  
        1999



  
        2000



  
        2001



  
        2002



  
        2003



  
        2004



  
        2005



  
        2006



  
        2007



  
        2008



  
        2009



  
        2010



  
        2011



  
        2012



  
        2013



  
        2014



  
        2015



  
        2016



  
        2017



  
        2018



  
        2019



  
        2020



  
        2021



  
        2022



  
        2023



  
        2024



  
        2025



  
        2026



  
        2027



  
        2028






      No results found
    











 *Enter the expected year of graduation if you're student 







    Current Employer
      *










        Company Name
          *












      Type to search
    





      No results found
    























                








 
    Please verify your phone number 
  











 Edit 
























        Resend OTP
      








          Skip
          






 
        By clicking on Start Test, I agree to be contacted by Scaler in the future.
      

          Already have an account? 
         
          Log in
        


Powered By 









Free Mock Assessment

Powered By 





























 Instructions from Interviewbit 




    Start Test
  













Blog
Community
About Us
FAQ
Contact Us
Terms
Privacy Policy



























Practice Questions


Programming


Scripting


System Design


Databases


Puzzle






Fast Track Courses


Python


Java


C++


Javascript







Online Interviewbit Compilers



Online C Compiler


Online C++ Compiler


Online Java Compiler


Online Javascript Compiler


Online Python Compiler




Interview Preparation



Top Interview Questions
Language, Tools & Technologies



        Java Interview Questions
      



        Sql Interview Questions
      



        Python Interview Questions
      



        Javascript Interview Questions
      



        Angular Interview Questions
      



        Networking Interview Questions
      



        Selenium Interview Questions
      



        Data Structure Interview Questions
      



        Data Science Interview Questions
      



        System Design Interview Questions
      



        Hr Interview Questions
      



        Html Interview Questions
      



        C Interview Questions
      



        View All
      


Companies



        Amazon Interview Questions
      



        Facebook Interview Questions
      



        Google Interview Questions
      



        Tcs Interview Questions
      



        Accenture Interview Questions
      



        Infosys Interview Questions
      



        Capgemini Interview Questions
      



        Wipro Interview Questions
      



        Cognizant Interview Questions
      



        Deloitte Interview Questions
      



        Zoho Interview Questions
      



        Hcl Interview Questions
      



        View All
      






Top Articles



        Highest Paying Jobs In India
      



        Exciting C Projects Ideas With Source Code
      



        Top Java 8 Features
      



        Angular Vs React
      



        10 Best Data Structures And Algorithms Books
      



        Exciting C Projects Ideas With Source Code
      



        Best Full Stack Developer Courses
      



        Best Data Science Courses
      



        Python Commands List
      



        Data Scientist Salary
      



        Maximum Subarray Sum   Kadane’s Algorithm
      



        View All
      




Top Cheat Sheet



        Python Cheat Sheet
      



        C++ Cheat Sheet
      



        Javascript Cheat Sheet
      



        Git Cheat Sheet
      



        Java Cheat Sheet
      



        View All
      




Top MCQ



        Java Mcq
      



        Data Structure Mcq
      



        Dbms Mcq
      



        C Programming Mcq
      



        C++ Mcq
      



        Python Mcq
      



        Javascript Mcq
      



        View All
      









403 Forbidden
Forbidden
You don't have permission to access this resource.
Top 50 Machine Learning Interview Questions (2023) - javatpoint
⇧ SCROLL TO TOP



         















 Home
 Interview Questions
 Java
 SQL
 Python
 JavaScript
 Angular
 Selenium
 Spring Boot
 HR
 C
 Data Structure
 DBMS
 HTML
 C#
 C++






All Interview


Interview Tips
JOB/HR Interview
Competency Interview
Business Analyst
Behavioral Interview


Company Interview


Company Interview
IBM Interview
Infosys Interview
Capgemini Interview
Cognizant Interview
Wipro Interview
Accenture Interview
iGate Interview
TCS Interview
HCL Interview
Adobe Interview
Microsoft Interview
DXC Technology Interview
Ericsson Interview
EXL Service Interview
IndiaMART Interview
Intuit Interview
SpaceX Interview
Sapient Interview
Amazon Interview


Technical Interview


C Interview
C++ Interview
Data Structure Interview
Linux Interview
Unix Interview
Shell Scripting
Networking Interview
CCNA Interview
Android Interview
Cloud Computing
Hadoop Interview
Testing/QTP Interview
Selenium Interview
Web Services Interview
OS Interview
Excel Interview
SEO Interview
Digital Marketing
Python Interview
Django Interview
Pascal Interview
Ruby Interview
Ruby on Rails Interview
Memcached Interview
Go Interview
OpenStack Interview
Scala Interview
Control Systems
Electrical Machines
Power System
Digital Electronics
Robotics Interview
TypeScript Interview
Swift Interview
Blockchain Interview
Bitcoin Interview
AWS Interview
Informatica Interview
QA Interview
React Interview
GIT Interview
J2EE Interview
Deep Learning
Salesforce Interview
TestNG Interview
Agile Interview
Machine Learning
API Testing
Algorithm
Java Design Pattern
Teradata
TensorFlow
LINQ
Mainframe
Laravel
JIRA
JCL
Pytorch
ETL Testing
Linked List
DataStage
Tableau
SAP ABAP
DAA
Computer Graphics
Data Science
Software Engineering
Power BI
Xamarin
Ansible
Data Warehouse
Ionic
Devops
React Native
Python Pandas
HTTP Interview
Kali Linux Interview
PowerShell Interview
SharePoint Interview
Talend Interview
Microsoft Azure Interview
R Interview
Flutter Interview
MATLAB Interview
ES6 Interview
RPA Interview
Desktop Support Interview
Angular 8 Interview
GraphQL Interview
Vue.js Interview
Automation Anywhere Interview
AI Interview
UiPath Interview
Blue Prism Interview
SSIS Interview
Mobile Computing Interview
ITIL Interview
SAS Interview
Elasticsearch Interview
Entity Framework Interview
RxJS Interview
Accounting Interview
Electron.js Interview
Knockout JS Interview
Top Angular Interview
IAS Interview Question
Banking Interview
Interview Questions for Freshers
PowerPoint Interview
BPO Interview
Civil Engineering Interview
Apache Spark Interview
Data Mining Interview
Java Support Interview
Kubernetes Interview
Web API Interview
Scrum Master Interview
System Design Interview
SSB Interview Questions
Teachers Interview Questions
Finance Interview Questions
Technical Support Interview
Active Directory Interview
Appium Interview
Cucumber Interview
Full-Stack Developer
ServiceNow Interview
Nursing Interview
Sales Interview
Microservices Interview
Electrical Engineering Interview
Accounts Payable Interview
VISA Interview
VLSI Interview
AutoCAD Interview
Verilog Interview
OOPs Interview
Web Developer Interview
Express.js Interview
CakePHP Interview
Yii Interview
Zend Framework Interview
Java Concurrency Interview
Symfony Interview
Basic Interview
Dynamic Programming Interview
Programming Interview
Next.js Interview
Microsoft Java Interview
AEM Interview
Svelte.js Interview
COBOL Interview
Cyber Security Interview
SQL Query Interview
BGP Interview
Apache Hive Interview
Kafka Interview
Embedded C Interview
Pega Interview
Kotlin Interview
SAP MM Interview
OSPF Interview
Mobile Testing Interview
Mulesoft Interview
Terraform Interview
Salesforce Lightning Interview
SCCM Interview
Postman Interview
Content Writer Interview
IoT Interview
NLP Interview
Splunk Interview
PostgreSQL Interview
Tricky Java Interview
PySpark Interview
VBA Interview
Front End Developer Interview
Computer Science Interview
Data Modeling Interview
Google Analytics Interview
Sqoop Interview
Statistics Interview
Tally Interview
CICS Interview
Chemistry Interview
Data Engineer Interview
Azure Data Factory Interview
Insurance Interview
IIS Interview
MS Word Interview
SDET Interview
Weblogic Interview
PHP OOPs Interview
Checkpoint Interview
Python Coding Interview
Garbage Collection Interview
Python Interview Questions for Five Years Experienced
LinkedIn Python 2022 Qualifying Assessment Answers
Top Coding Interview Questions on Arrays-C
Computer Network Viva Questions
Java 8 Multithreading Interview Questions


Web Interview


HTML Interview
CSS Interview
JavaScript Interview
jQuery Interview
AngularJS Interview
Angular Interview
Angular 7 Interview
Node.js Interview
AJAX Interview
XML Interview
Dojo Interview
Backbone.js Interview
Ember.js Interview
XHTML Interview
XSLT Interview
XPath Interview
XQuery Interview
XForms Interview
SASS Interview
CoffeeScript Interview
LESS Interview
Perl Interview
Pure.CSS Interview
Materialize Interview
Framework7 Interview
SVG Interview
SAP FICO Interview
Ab Initio Interview


PHP Interview


PHP Interview
Wordpress Interview
Joomla Interview
Drupal Interview
Magento Interview
CodeIgniter Interview
Phalcon Interview


.Net Interview


.Net Interview
C# Interview
ASP.NET Interview
ADO.NET Interview
WCF Interview
WPF Interview
Silverlight Interview
F# Interview


Java Interview


Java 1 Interview
Java 2 Interview
Multithreading 
Collections Interview
JDBC Interview
Servlet Interview
JSP Interview
EJB Interview
Struts Interview
Hibernate Interview
Spring Interview
Spring Boot Interview
Spring MVC Interview
JPA Interview
Maven Interview
JUnit Interview
JSF Interview
PrimeFaces Interview
RichFaces Interview
GWT Interview
JDB Interview
JOGL Interview
jBPM Interview
Jenkins Interview
Java Constructor Interview
Technical Architect Interview
Array Interview Questions
Java Generics Questions


Database Interview


DBMS Interview
SQL Interview
PL/SQL Interview
Oracle Interview
MySql Interview
SQL Server Interview
MongoDB Interview
Cassandra Interview
DB2 Interview
Access Interview
SQLite Interview
CouchDB Interview
Neo4j Interview
MariaDB Interview
PouchDB Interview
Redis Interview

















Machine Learning Interview Questions

A list of frequently asked machine learning interview questions and answers are given below.
1) What do you understand by Machine learning?
Machine learning is the form of Artificial Intelligence that deals with system programming and automates data analysis to enable computers to learn and act through experiences without being explicitly programmed.
For example, Robots are coded in such a way that they can perform the tasks based on data they collect from sensors. They automatically learn programs from data and improve with experiences.


2) Differentiate between inductive learning and deductive learning?
In inductive learning, the model learns by examples from a set of observed instances to draw a generalized conclusion. On the other side, in deductive learning, the model first applies the conclusion, and then the conclusion is drawn.

Inductive learning is the method of using observations to draw conclusions.
Deductive learning is the method of using conclusions to form observations.

For example, if we have to explain to a kid that playing with fire can cause burns. There are two ways we can explain this to a kid; we can show training examples of various fire accidents or images of burnt people and label them as "Hazardous". In this case, a kid will understand with the help of examples and not play with the fire. It is the form of Inductive machine learning. The other way to teach the same thing is to let the kid play with the fire and wait to see what happens. If the kid gets a burn, it will teach the kid not to play with fire and avoid going near it. It is the form of deductive learning.

3) What is the difference between Data Mining and Machine Learning?
Data mining can be described as the process in which the structured data tries to abstract knowledge or interesting unknown patterns. During this process, machine learning algorithms are used.
Machine learning represents the study, design, and development of the algorithms which provide the ability to the processors to learn without being explicitly programmed.

4) What is the meaning of Overfitting in Machine learning?
Overfitting can be seen in machine learning when a statistical model describes random error or noise instead of the underlying relationship. Overfitting is usually observed when a model is excessively complex. It happens because of having too many parameters concerning the number of training data types. The model displays poor performance, which has been overfitted.

5) Why overfitting occurs?
The possibility of overfitting occurs when the criteria used for training the model is not as per the criteria used to judge the efficiency of a model.

6) What is the method to avoid overfitting?
Overfitting occurs when we have a small dataset, and a model is trying to learn from it. By using a large amount of data, overfitting can be avoided. But if we have a small database and are forced to build a model based on that, then we can use a technique known as cross-validation. In this method, a model is usually given a dataset of a known data on which training data set is run and dataset of unknown data against which the model is tested. The primary aim of cross-validation is to define a dataset to "test" the model in the training phase. If there is sufficient data, 'Isotonic Regression' is used to prevent overfitting.

7) Differentiate supervised and unsupervised machine learning.

In supervised machine learning, the machine is trained using labeled data. Then a new dataset is given into the learning model so that the algorithm provides a positive outcome by analyzing the labeled data. For example, we first require to label the data which is necessary to train the model while performing classification.
In the unsupervised machine learning, the machine is not trained using labeled data and let the algorithms make the decisions without any corresponding output variables.


8) How does Machine Learning differ from Deep Learning?

Machine learning is all about algorithms which are used to parse data, learn from that data, and then apply whatever they have learned to make informed decisions.
Deep learning is a part of machine learning, which is inspired by the structure of the human brain and is particularly useful in feature detection.


9) How is KNN different from k-means?
KNN or K nearest neighbors is a supervised algorithm which is used for classification purpose. In KNN, a test sample is given as the class of the majority of its nearest neighbors. On the other side, K-means is an unsupervised algorithm which is mainly used for clustering. In k-means clustering, it needs a set of unlabeled points and a threshold only. The algorithm further takes unlabeled data and learns how to cluster it into groups by computing the mean of the distance between different unlabeled points.

10) What are the different types of Algorithm methods in Machine Learning?
The different types of algorithm methods in machine earning are:

Supervised Learning
Semi-supervised Learning
Unsupervised Learning
Transduction
Reinforcement Learning


11) What do you understand by Reinforcement Learning technique?
Reinforcement learning is an algorithm technique used in Machine Learning. It involves an agent that interacts with its environment by producing actions & discovering errors or rewards. Reinforcement learning is employed by different software and machines to search for the best suitable behavior or path it should follow in a specific situation. It usually learns on the basis of reward or penalty given for every action it performs.

12) What is the trade-off between bias and variance?
Both bias and variance are errors. Bias is an error due to erroneous or overly simplistic assumptions in the learning algorithm. It can lead to the model under-fitting the data, making it hard to have high predictive accuracy and generalize the knowledge from the training set to the test set.
Variance is an error due to too much complexity in the learning algorithm. It leads to the algorithm being highly sensitive to high degrees of variation in the training data, which can lead the model to overfit the data.
To optimally reduce the number of errors, we will need to tradeoff bias and variance.

13) How do classification and regression differ?


Classification
Regression



Classification is the task to predict a discrete class label.


Regression is the task to predict a continuous quantity.



In a classification problem, data is labeled into one of two or more classes.


A regression problem needs the prediction of a quantity.



A classification having problem with two classes is called binary classification, and more than two classes is called multi-class classification


A regression problem containing multiple input variables is called a multivariate regression problem.



Classifying an email as spam or non-spam is an example of a classification problem.


Predicting the price of a stock over a period of time is a regression problem.



14) What are the five popular algorithms we use in Machine Learning?
Five popular algorithms are:

Decision Trees
Probabilistic Networks
Neural Networks
Support Vector Machines
Nearest Neighbor


15) What do you mean by ensemble learning?
Numerous models, such as classifiers are strategically made and combined to solve a specific computational program which is known as ensemble learning. The ensemble methods are also known as committee-based learning or learning multiple classifier systems. It trains various hypotheses to fix the same issue. One of the most suitable examples of ensemble modeling is the random forest trees where several decision trees are used to predict outcomes. It is used to improve the classification, function approximation, prediction, etc. of a model.

16) What is a model selection in Machine Learning?
The process of choosing models among diverse mathematical models, which are used to define the same data is known as Model Selection. Model learning is applied to the fields of statistics, data mining, and machine learning.

17) What are the three stages of building the hypotheses or model in machine learning?
There are three stages to build hypotheses or model in machine learning:

Model building
It chooses a suitable algorithm for the model and trains it according to the requirement of the problem.
Applying the model
It is responsible for checking the accuracy of the model through the test data.
Model testing
It performs the required changes after testing and apply the final model.


18) What according to you, is the standard approach to supervised learning?
In supervised learning, the standard approach is to split the set of example into the training set and the test.

19) Describe 'Training set' and 'training Test'.
In various areas of information of machine learning, a set of data is used to discover the potentially predictive relationship, which is known as 'Training Set'. The training set is an example that is given to the learner. Besides, the 'Test set' is used to test the accuracy of the hypotheses generated by the learner. It is the set of instances held back from the learner. Thus, the training set is distinct from the test set.

20) What are the common ways to handle missing data in a dataset?
Missing data is one of the standard factors while working with data and handling. It is considered as one of the greatest challenges faced by the data analysts. There are many ways one can impute the missing values. Some of the common methods to handle missing data in datasets can be defined as deleting the rows, replacing with mean/median/mode, predicting the missing values, assigning a unique category, using algorithms that support missing values, etc.

21) What do you understand by ILP?
ILP stands for Inductive Logic Programming. It is a part of machine learning which uses logic programming. It aims at searching patterns in data which can be used to build predictive models. In this process, the logic programs are assumed as a hypothesis.

22) What are the necessary steps involved in Machine Learning Project?
There are several essential steps we must follow to achieve a good working model while doing a Machine Learning Project. Those steps may include parameter tuning, data preparation, data collection, training the model, model evaluation, and prediction, etc.

23) Describe Precision and Recall?
Precision and Recall both are the measures which are used in the information retrieval domain to measure how good an information retrieval system reclaims the related data as requested by the user.
Precision can be said as a positive predictive value. It is the fraction of relevant instances among the received instances.
On the other side, recall is the fraction of relevant instances that have been retrieved over the total amount or relevant instances. The recall is also known as sensitivity.

24) What do you understand by Decision Tree in Machine Learning?
Decision Trees can be defined as the Supervised Machine Learning, where the data is continuously split according to a certain parameter. It builds classification or regression models as similar as a tree structure, with datasets broken up into ever smaller subsets while developing the decision tree. The tree can be defined by two entities, namely decision nodes, and leaves. The leaves are the decisions or the outcomes, and the decision nodes are where the data is split. Decision trees can manage both categorical and numerical data.

25) What are the functions of Supervised Learning?

Classification
Speech Recognition
Regression
Predict Time Series
Annotate Strings


26) What are the functions of Unsupervised Learning?

Finding clusters of the data
Finding low-dimensional representations of the data
Finding interesting directions in data
Finding novel observations/ database cleaning
Finding interesting coordinates and correlations


27) What do you understand by algorithm independent machine learning?
Algorithm independent machine learning can be defined as machine learning, where mathematical foundations are independent of any particular classifier or learning algorithm.

28) Describe the classifier in machine learning.
A classifier is a case of a hypothesis or discrete-valued function which is used to assign class labels to particular data points. It is a system that inputs a vector of discrete or continuous feature values and outputs a single discrete value, the class.

29) What do you mean by Genetic Programming?
Genetic Programming (GP) is almost similar to an Evolutionary Algorithm, a subset of machine learning. Genetic programming software systems implement an algorithm that uses random mutation, a fitness function, crossover, and multiple generations of evolution to resolve a user-defined task. The genetic programming model is based on testing and choosing the best option among a set of results.

30) What is SVM in machine learning? What are the classification methods that SVM can handle?
SVM stands for Support Vector Machine. SVM are supervised learning models with an associated learning algorithm which analyze the data used for classification and regression analysis.
The classification methods that SVM can handle are:

Combining binary classifiers
Modifying binary to incorporate multiclass learning


31) How will you explain a linked list and an array?
An array is a datatype which is widely implemented as a default type, in almost all the modern programming languages. It is used to store data of a similar type.
But there are many use-cases where we don't know the quantity of data to be stored. For such cases, advanced data structures are required, and one such data structure is linked list.
There are some points which explain how the linked list is different from an array:


ARRAY
LINKED LIST



An array is a group of elements of a similar data type.

Linked List is an ordered group of elements of the same type, which are connected using pointers.



Elements are stored consecutively in the memory.

New elements can be stored anywhere in memory.



An Array supports Random Access. It means that the elements can be accessed directly using their index value, like arr[0] for 1st element, arr[5] for 6th element, etc.
As a result, accessing elements in an array is fast with constant time complexity of O(1).

Linked List supports Sequential Access. It means that we have to traverse the complete linked list, up to that element sequentially which element/node we want to access in a linked list.
To access the nth element of a linked list, the time complexity is O(n).



Memory is allocated at compile time as soon as the array is declared. It is known as Static Memory Allocation.

Memory is allocated at runtime, whenever a new node is added. It is known as Dynamic Memory Allocation.



Insertion and Deletion operation takes more time in the array, as the memory locations are consecutive and fixed.

In case of a linked list, a new element is stored at the first free available memory location.
Thus, Insertion and Deletion operations are fast in the linked list.



Size of the array must be declared at the time of array declaration.

Size of a Linked list is variable. It grows at runtime whenever nodes are added to it.



32) What do you understand by the Confusion Matrix?
A confusion matrix is a table which is used for summarizing the performance of a classification algorithm. It is also known as the error matrix.

Where,
TN= True Negative
TP= True Positive
FN= False Negative
FP= False Positive

33) Explain True Positive, True Negative, False Positive, and False Negative in Confusion Matrix with an example.

True Positive
When a model correctly predicts the positive class, it is said to be a true positive.
For example, Umpire gives a Batsman NOT OUT when he is NOT OUT.
True Negative
When a model correctly predicts the negative class, it is said to be a true negative.
For example, Umpire gives a Batsman OUT when he is OUT.
False Positive
When a model incorrectly predicts the positive class, it is said to be a false positive. It is also known as 'Type I' error.
For example, Umpire gives a Batsman NOT OUT when he is OUT.
False Negative
When a model incorrectly predicts the negative class, it is said to be a false negative. It is also known as 'Type II' error.
For example, Umpire gives a Batsman OUT when he is NOT OUT.


34) What according to you, is more important between model accuracy and model performance?
Model accuracy is a subset of model performance. The accuracy of the model is directly proportional to the performance of the model. Thus, better the performance of the model, more accurate are the predictions.

35) What is Bagging and Boosting?

Bagging is a process in ensemble learning which is used for improving unstable estimation or classification schemes.
Boosting methods are used sequentially to reduce the bias of the combined model.


36) What are the similarities and differences between bagging and boosting in Machine Learning?
Similarities of Bagging and Boosting

Both are the ensemble methods to get N learns from 1 learner.
Both generate several training data sets with random sampling.
Both generate the final result by taking the average of N learners.
Both reduce variance and provide higher scalability.

Differences between Bagging and Boosting

Although they are built independently, but for Bagging, Boosting tries to add new models which perform well where previous models fail.
Only Boosting determines the weight for the data to tip the scales in favor of the most challenging cases.
Only Boosting tries to reduce bias. Instead, Bagging may solve the problem of over-fitting while boosting can increase it.


37) What do you understand by Cluster Sampling?
Cluster Sampling is a process of randomly selecting intact groups within a defined population, sharing similar characteristics. Cluster sample is a probability where each sampling unit is a collection or cluster of elements.
For example, if we are clustering the total number of managers in a set of companies, in that case, managers (sample) will represent elements and companies will represent clusters.

38) What do you know about Bayesian Networks?
Bayesian Networks also referred to as 'belief networks' or 'casual networks', are used to represent the graphical model for probability relationship among a set of variables.
For example, a Bayesian network can be used to represent the probabilistic relationships between diseases and symptoms. As per the symptoms, the network can also compute the probabilities of the presence of various diseases.
Efficient algorithms can perform inference or learning in Bayesian networks. Bayesian networks which relate the variables (e.g., speech signals or protein sequences) are called dynamic Bayesian networks.

39) Which are the two components of Bayesian logic program?
A Bayesian logic program consists of two components:

Logical
It contains a set of Bayesian Clauses, which capture the qualitative structure of the domain.
Quantitative
It is used to encode quantitative information about the domain.


40) Describe dimension reduction in machine learning.
Dimension reduction is the process which is used to reduce the number of random variables under considerations.
Dimension reduction can be divided into feature selection and extraction.

41) Why instance-based learning algorithm sometimes referred to as Lazy learning algorithm?
In machine learning, lazy learning can be described as a method where induction and generalization processes are delayed until classification is performed. Because of the same property, an instance-based learning algorithm is sometimes called lazy learning algorithm.

42) What do you understand by the F1 score?
The F1 score represents the measurement of a model's performance. It is referred to as a weighted average of the precision and recall of a model. The results tending to 1 are considered as the best, and those tending to 0 are the worst. It could be used in classification tests, where true negatives don't matter much.

43) How is a decision tree pruned?
Pruning is said to occur in decision trees when the branches which may consist of weak predictive power are removed to reduce the complexity of the model and increase the predictive accuracy of a decision tree model. Pruning can occur bottom-up and top-down, with approaches such as reduced error pruning and cost complexity pruning.
Reduced error pruning is the simplest version, and it replaces each node. If it is unable to decrease predictive accuracy, one should keep it pruned. But, it usually comes pretty close to an approach that would optimize for maximum accuracy.

44) What are the Recommended Systems?
Recommended System is a sub-directory of information filtering systems. It predicts the preferences or rankings offered by a user to a product. According to the preferences, it provides similar recommendations to a user. Recommendation systems are widely used in movies, news, research articles, products, social tips, music, etc.

45) What do you understand by Underfitting?
Underfitting is an issue when we have a low error in both the training set and the testing set. Few algorithms work better for interpretations but fail for better predictions.

46) When does regularization become necessary in Machine Learning?
Regularization is necessary whenever the model begins to overfit/ underfit. It is a cost term for bringing in more features with the objective function. Hence, it tries to push the coefficients for many variables to zero and reduce cost term. It helps to reduce model complexity so that the model can become better at predicting (generalizing).

47) What is Regularization? What kind of problems does regularization solve?
A regularization is a form of regression, which constrains/ regularizes or shrinks the coefficient estimates towards zero. In other words, it discourages learning a more complex or flexible model to avoid the risk of overfitting. It reduces the variance of the model, without a substantial increase in its bias. 
Regularization is used to address overfitting problems as it penalizes the loss function by adding a multiple of an L1 (LASSO) or an L2 (Ridge) norm of weights vector w.

48) Why do we need to convert categorical variables into factor? Which functions are used to perform the conversion?
Most Machine learning algorithms require number as input. That is why we convert categorical values into factors to get numerical values. We also don't have to deal with dummy variables.
The functions factor() and as.factor() are used to convert variables into factors.

49) Do you think that treating a categorical variable as a continuous variable would result in a better predictive model?
For a better predictive model, the categorical variable can be considered as a continuous variable only when the variable is ordinal in nature.

50) How is machine learning used in day-to-day life?
Most of the people are already using machine learning in their everyday life. Assume that you are engaging with the internet, you are actually expressing your preferences, likes, dislikes through your searches. All these things are picked up by cookies coming on your computer, from this, the behavior of a user is evaluated. It helps to increase the progress of a user through the internet and provide similar suggestions.
The navigation system can also be considered as one of the examples where we are using machine learning to calculate a distance between two places using optimization techniques. Surely, people are going to more engage with machine learning in the near future.




Interview Tips
Job/HR Interview Questions
JavaScript Interview Questions
jQuery Interview Questions
Java Basics Interview Questions
Java OOPs Interview Questions
Servlet Interview Questions
JSP Interview Questions
Spring Interview QuestionsHibernate Interview Questions
PL/SQL Interview QuestionsSQL Interview Questions
Oracle Interview QuestionsAndroid Interview Questions
SQL Server Interview QuestionsMySQL Interview Questions







You may also like:

Java Interview Questions
SQL Interview Questions
Python Interview Questions
JavaScript Interview Questions
Angular Interview Questions
Selenium Interview Questions
Spring Boot Interview Questions
HR Interview Questions
C Programming Interview Questions
C++ Interview Questions
Data Structure Interview Questions
DBMS Interview Questions
HTML Interview Questions
IAS Interview Questions
Manual Testing Interview Questions
OOPs Interview Questions
.Net Interview Questions
C# Interview Questions
ReactJS Interview Questions
Networking Interview Questions
PHP Interview Questions
CSS Interview Questions
Node.js Interview Questions
Spring Interview Questions
Hibernate Interview Questions
AWS Interview Questions
Accounting Interview Questions



Learn Latest Tutorials



Splunk




SPSS




Swagger




Transact-SQL




Tumblr




ReactJS




Regex




Reinforcement Learning




R Programming




RxJS




React Native




Python Design Patterns




Python Pillow




Python Turtle




Keras






Preparation



Aptitude




Reasoning




Verbal Ability




Interview Questions




Company Questions






Trending Technologies



Artificial Intelligence




AWS




Selenium




Cloud Computing




Hadoop




ReactJS




Data Science




Angular 7




Blockchain




Git




Machine Learning




DevOps






B.Tech / MCA



DBMS




Data Structures




DAA




Operating System




Computer Network




Compiler Design




Computer Organization




Discrete Mathematics




Ethical Hacking




Computer Graphics




Software Engineering




Web Technology




Cyber Security




Automata




C Programming




C++




Java




.Net




Python




Programs




Control System




Data Mining




Data Warehouse
















 Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on h[email protected], to get more information about given services.  Website DesigningWebsite DevelopmentJava DevelopmentPHP DevelopmentWordPressGraphic DesigningLogoDigital MarketingOn Page and Off Page SEOPPCContent DevelopmentCorporate TrainingClassroom and Online TrainingData Entry  Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected]. Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter        Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring TutorialOur WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.comOur ServicesWebsite DevelopmentAndroid DevelopmentWebsite DesigningDigital MarketingSummer TrainingIndustrial TrainingCollege Campus TrainingContactAddress: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3Noida, UP, 201301, IndiaContact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemapAbout Me© Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.







Attention Required! | Cloudflare

Please enable cookies.


Sorry, you have been blocked
You are unable to access springboard.com











Why have I been blocked?
This website is using a security service to protect itself from online attacks. The action you just performed triggered the security solution. There are several actions that could trigger this block including submitting a certain word or phrase, a SQL command or malformed data.


What can I do to resolve this?
You can email the site owner to let them know you were blocked. Please include what you were doing when this page came up and the Cloudflare Ray ID found at the bottom of this page.





Cloudflare Ray ID: 7d2e34396ebcacc1
•

      Your IP:
      Click to reveal
35.237.6.64
•

Performance & security by Cloudflare






Top 50 Machine Learning Interview Questions & Answers 2023





















 



 



Explore Online Courses 
Free Courses
Interview Questions
Tutorials
Community











Courses 







Free Courses


Interview Questions


Tutorials


Community



























Home /
Interview Question /
Top 50 Machine Learning Interview Questions in 2023







Top 50 Machine Learning Interview Questions in 2023


By Naveen 
6.4 K Views
38  min read
Updated on May 12, 2023






Machine Learning is the heart of Artificial Intelligence. Machine Learning consists of techniques that form the basic structure for constructing algorithms. These algorithms are used to give functionalities to make automated machines carry out tasks without being explicitly programmed. This basic structure of Machine Learning and various Machine Learning algorithms are the key areas where interviewers check a candidate’s competence. So, to leverage your skills in an interview, we have come up with a comprehensive blog on the top 50 Machine Learning interview questions and answers for 2023. Read More





Become a Certified Professional



Become a Certified Professional 












500% salary hike received by a working professional post completion of the course*


Fresher earned 30 LPA salary package on completion of the course*


53% of learners received 50% and above salary hike post completion of the program*


85% of the learners achieved their training objectives within 9 months of course completion*


95% learner satisfaction score post completion of the program/training*




Process Advisors


*Subject to Terms and Condition










Categories

 
Automation
3

Top RPA Interview Questions and AnswersTop 50 UiPath Interview Questions and Answers in 2023Top 50 Automation Anywhere Interview Questions and Answers in 2023 


Big Data
12

Top Splunk Interview Questions and AnswersTop 70 Hadoop Interview Questions to Prepare In 2023Top Apache Solr Interview Questions And AnswersTop Apache Storm Interview Questions And AnswersTop 40 Apache Spark Interview Questions and Answers in 2023Top Mapreduce Interview Questions And AnswersTop HDFS Interview Questions And AnswersTop Kafka Interview Questions in 2023Top Couchbase Interview Questions - Most AskedTop PIG Interview Questions - Most AskedTop Hive Interview Questions – Most AskedTop Sqoop Interview Questions – Most Asked 


Business Intelligence
21

Top SAS Interview Questions and AnswersTop Obiee Interview Questions And AnswersTop Pentaho Interview Questions And AnswersTop MSBI Interview Questions and AnswersQlikView Interview Questions and AnswersTop 65+ Tableau Interview Questions and Answers in 2023Top Data Warehouse Interview Questions and AnswersTop Microstrategy Interview Questions And AnswersTop Cognos Interview Questions And AnswersTop Cognos TM1 Interview Questions And AnswersTop 60 Talend Interview Questions with Answers 2023Top 40 DataStage Interview Questions and AnswersTop Informatica Interview Questions and AnswersTop Spotfire Interview Questions And AnswersTop Jaspersoft Interview Questions And AnswersTop ETL Interview Questions and AnswersTop Hyperion Interview Questions And AnswersTop Ireport Interview Questions And AnswersTop 50+ Qlik Sense Interview Questions - Most AskedTop 100+ Power BI Interview Questions and Answers for 2023Top 35 Business Analyst Interview Questions and Answers 


Cloud Computing
21

Top OpenStack Interview Questions And AnswersSharePoint Interview Questions and AnswersTop 70+ AWS Interview Questions and Answers in 2023Top 50+ DevOps Interview Questions in 2023Top 40+ Cloud Computing Interview Questions – 2023Top 50+ Blockchain Interview Questions in 2023Top 85+ Azure Interview Questions in 2023Top Chef Interview Questions And AnswersTop 40 Docker Interview Questions and AnswersTop Git Interview Questions And AnswersTop Jenkins Interview Questions and AnswersTop 35 Kubernetes Interview Questions and Answers for 2023Top Puppet Interview Questions in 2023Top 30 GCP Interview Questions and AnswersAzure Data Factory Interview QuestionsTop 50 AWS DevOps Interview QuestionsTop 30 Azure DevOps Interview Questions and AnswersTop 40 Ansible Interview Questions and Answers of 2023Top 30 AWS Lambda Interview Questions and Answers [2023]Top Terraform Interview Questions in 2023SAAS Interview Questions 


Cyber Security
2

Top Ethical Hacking Interview Questions And AnswersTop 50 Cyber Security Interview Questions and Answers 


Data Science
11

Top R Interview Questions And AnswersTop 100+ Data Science Interview Questions in 2023Top Mahout Interview Questions And AnswersTop 70+ Artificial Intelligence Interview QuestionsTop 50 Machine Learning Interview Questions in 2023Top 50 Data Analyst Interview Questions and Answers in 2023Top 50 Data Engineer Interview Questions and AnswersTop 30 NLP Interview Questions and AnswersTop 50 Deep Learning and Machine Learning Interview QuestionsTop 50 TensorFlow Interview QuestionsTop 75 Statistics Interview Questions 


Database
8

Top 70+ SQL Interview Questions and Answers in 2023Top 55 Oracle DBA Interview Questions and Answers 2023Top 65 PL/SQL Interview Questions and Answers [2023]Top 30+ DB2 Interview Questions and AnswersTop MySQL Interview Questions and AnswersTop SQL Server Interview Questions and AnswersTop 40 PostgreSQL Interview Questions and AnswersTop 30 SQL Joins Interview Questions and Answers 


Digital Marketing
3

Top 65 Digital Marketing Interview Questions and Answers in 2023Top 100 SEO Interview Questions and Answers in 2023Top 30 Social Media Marketing Interview Questions 


Electric Vehicle
1

Top 45 Electric Vehicle Interview Questions 


Investment Banking
1

Top 35 Investment Banking Interview Questions and Answers in 2023 


Mobile Development
2

Top iOS Interview Questions and AnswersTop Android Interview Questions and Answers 


No-SQL
5

Top MongoDB Interview Questions and AnswersTop 60 HBase Interview Questions And Answers (2023)Top Cassandra Interview Questions and AnswersTop NoSQL Interview Questions And AnswersTop Couchdb Interview Questions And Answers 


Programming
15

Python Interview Questions in 2023Top 100+ Java Interview Questions and Answers in 2023Top 50 Linux Interview Questions and AnswersTop C & Data Structure Interview Questions And AnswersTop SOA Interview Questions And AnswersTop JBPM Interview Questions and Answers in 2023Top Drools Interview Questions And AnswersTop Junit Interview Questions And AnswersTop Spring Interview Questions and AnswersTop Django Interview Questions and AnswersTop 50 Data Structures Interview QuestionsTop 50 Node.js Interview Questions and Answers for 2023Top Java 8 Interview QuestionsTop .NET Interview QuestionsTop 45 Software Engineering Interview Questions And Answers 


Project Management
6

Top Agile Scrum Master Interview Questions and AnswersTop ITIL Interview Questions and AnswersTop Prince2 Interview Questions And AnswersTop Togaf Interview Questions - Most AskedTop Project Management Interview Questions And AnswersTop 30 Product Manager Interview Questions and Answers 


Salesforce
3

Salesforce Interview QuestionsTop 50 Salesforce Admin Interview Questions and AnswersTop Salesforce Lightning Interview Questions 


Testing
4

Top 95+ Selenium Interview Questions for 2023Top Software Testing Interview Questions And AnswersTop ETL Testing Interview Questions and AnswersTop Manual Testing Interview Questions and Answers 


UI UX
2

Top 40 UI Developer Interview Questions and Answers for 202335 UX Designer Interview Questions and Answers 2023 


Website Development
8

Top 64 PHP Interview Questions and Answers 2023Top CSS Interview Questions And AnswersTop Jquery Interview Questions And AnswersTop 45 HTML Interview Questions and Answers in 2023Top React Interview Questions You Need to PrepareTop 50 Web Developer Interview Questions and AnswersTop 100+ Angular Interview Questions and Answers in 2023Full Stack Developer Interview Questions 








Top Machine Learning Interview Questions and Answers

CTAMachine Learning and Artificial Intelligence are among the most popular technologies in the world today. This comprehensive blog consists of some of the most frequently asked Machine Learning interview questions that aim to help you revise all the necessary concepts and skills to land your dream job. This blog is specifically designed for you to do a thorough Machine Learning interview preparation before going for the interview. Listed below are some of the most frequently asked questions in an ML job interview. Go through them and succeed in your career!
Q1. Explain Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence, and Deep Learning
Q2. What is Bias and Variance in Machine Learning?
Q3. What is Clustering in Machine Learning?
Q4. What is Linear Regression in Machine Learning?
Q5. What is a Decision Tree in Machine Learning?
Q6. What is Overfitting in Machine Learning and how can it be avoided?
Q7. What is Hypothesis in Machine Learning?
Q8. What are the differences between Deep Learning and Machine Learning?
Q9. What are the differences between Supervised and Unsupervised Machine Learning?
Q10. What is Bayes’s Theorem in Machine Learning?
Q11. What is PCA in Machine Learning?
Q12. What is Support Vector Machine (SVM) in Machine Learning?
Q13. What is Cross-validation in Machine Learning?
Q14. What is Entropy in Machine Learning?
Q15. What is Epoch in Machine Learning?
Following are the three categories into which these Machine Learning interview questions are divided:
1. Basic-level Questions
2. Intermediate-level Questions
3. Advanced-level Questions
Check out our Machine Learning Interview Questions And Answers Video on Youtube:










Basic-level Questions

1. Explain Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence, and Deep LearningIt is common to get confused between the three in-demand technologies, Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence, and Deep Learning. These three technologies, though a little different from one another, are interrelated. While Deep Learning is a subset of Machine Learning, Machine Learning is a subset of Artificial Intelligence. Since some terms and techniques may overlap in these technologies, it is easy to get confused among them.

So, let us learn about these technologies in detail:

Machine Learning: Machine Learning involves various statistical and Deep Learning techniques that allow machines to use their past experiences and get better at performing specific tasks without having to be monitored.
Artificial Intelligence: Artificial Intelligence uses numerous Machine Learning and Deep Learning techniques that enable computer systems to perform tasks using human-like intelligence with logic and rules. Artificial intelligence is used in every sector hence it is necessary to pursue Artificial Intelligence Course to make your career in AI.
Deep Learning: Deep Learning comprises several algorithms that enable software to learn from themselves and perform various business tasks including image and speech recognition. Deep Learning is possible when systems expose their multilayered neural networks to large volumes of data for learning.

Willing to master AI & ML skills? Check our AI and Machine Learning Courses in collaboration with top universities Now!

2. What is Bias and Variance in Machine Learning?
Bias is the difference between the average prediction of a model and the correct value of the model. If the bias value is high, then the prediction of the model is not accurate. Hence, the bias value should be as low as possible to make the desired predictions.
Variance is the number that gives the difference of prediction over a training set and the anticipated value of other training sets. High variance may lead to large fluctuation in the output. Therefore, a model’s output should have low variance.

The following diagram shows the bias-variance trade-off:

Here, the desired result is the blue circle at the center. If we get off from the blue section, then the prediction goes wrong.
Interested in learning Machine Learning? Enroll in our Machine Learning Training now!

3. What is Clustering in Machine Learning?Clustering is a technique used in unsupervised learning that involves grouping data points. The clustering algorithm can be used with a set of data points. This technique will allow you to classify all data points into their particular groups. The data points that are thrown into the same category have similar features and properties, while the data points that belong to different groups have distinct features and properties. Statistical data analysis can be performed by this method. Let us take a look at three of the most popular and useful clustering algorithms.

K-means clustering: This algorithm is commonly used when there is data with no specific group or category. K-means clustering allows you to find the hidden patterns in the data, which can be used to classify the data into various groups. The variable k is used to represent the number of groups the data is divided into, and the data points are clustered using the similarity of features. Here, the centroids of the clusters are used for labeling new data.
Mean-shift clustering: The main aim of this algorithm is to update the center-point candidates to be mean and find the center points of all groups. In mean-shift clustering, unlike k-means clustering, the possible number of clusters need not be selected as it can automatically be discovered by the mean shift.
Density-based spatial clustering of applications with noise (DBSCAN): This clustering algorithm is based on density and has similarities with mean-shift clustering. There is no need to preset the number of clusters, but unlike mean-shift clustering, DBSCAN identifies outliers and treats them like noise. Moreover, it can identify arbitrarily-sized and -shaped clusters without much effort.


4. What is Linear Regression in Machine Learning?Linear Regression is a supervised Machine Learning algorithm. It is used to find the linear relationship between the dependent and independent variables for predictive analysis.
The equation for Linear Regression:

where:

X is the input or independent variable
Y is the output or dependent variable
a is the intercept, and b is the coefficient of X

Below is the best-fit line that shows the data of weight, Y or the dependent variable, and the

ata of height, X or the independent variable, of 21-year-old candidates scattered over the plot. The straight line shows the best linear relationship that would help in predicting the weight of candidates according to their height.
To get this best-fit line, the best values of a and b should be found. By adjusting the values of a and b, the errors in the prediction of Y can be reduced.
This is how linear regression helps in finding the linear relationship and predicting the output.
Get 100% Hike!Master Most in Demand Skills Now !












































5. What is a Decision Tree in Machine Learning?A decision tree is used to explain the sequence of actions that must be performed to get the desired output. It is a hierarchical diagram that shows the actions.

An algorithm can be created for a decision tree on the basis of the set hierarchy of actions.
In the above decision-tree diagram, a sequence of actions has been made for driving a vehicle with or without a license.

6. What is Overfitting in Machine Learning and how can it be avoided?Overfitting happens when a machine has an inadequate dataset and tries to learn from it. So, overfitting is inversely proportional to the amount of data.
For small databases, overfitting can be bypassed by the cross-validation method. In this approach, a dataset is divided into two sections. These two sections will comprise the testing and training dataset. To train a model, the training dataset is used, and for testing the model for new inputs, the testing dataset is used.
This is how to avoid overfitting.

7. What is Hypothesis in Machine Learning?Machine Learning allows the use of available dataset to understand a specific function that maps input to output in the best possible way. This problem is known as function approximation. Here, approximation needs to be used for the unknown target function that maps all plausible observations based on the given problem in the best manner. Hypothesis in Machine learning is a model that helps in approximating the target function and performing the necessary input-to-output mappings. The choice and configuration of algorithms allow defining the space of plausible hypotheses that may be represented by a model.
In the hypothesis, lowercase h (h) is used for a specific hypothesis, while uppercase h (H) is used for the hypothesis space that is being searched. Let us briefly understand these notations:

Hypothesis (h): A hypothesis is a specific model that helps in mapping input to output; the mapping can further be used for evaluation and prediction.
Hypothesis set (H): Hypothesis set consists of a space of hypotheses that can be used to map inputs to outputs, which can be searched. The general constraints include the choice of problem framing, the model, and the model configuration.


8. What are the differences between Deep Learning and Machine Learning?
Deep Learning: Deep Learning allows machines to make various business-related decisions using artificial neural networks, which is one of the reasons why it needs a vast amount of data for training. Since there is a lot of computing power required, Deep Learning requires high-end systems as well. The systems acquire various properties and features with the help of the given data, and the problem is solved using an end-to-end method.
Machine Learning: Machine Learning gives machines the ability to make business decisions without any external help, using the knowledge gained from past data. Machine Learning systems require relatively small amounts of data to train themselves, and most of the features need to be manually coded and understood in advance. In Machine Learning, a given business problem is dissected into two and then solved individually. Once the solutions of both have been acquired, they are then combined.


9. What are the differences between Supervised and Unsupervised Machine Learning?
Supervised learning: The algorithms of supervised learning use labeled data to get trained. The models take direct feedback to confirm whether the output that is being predicted is, indeed, correct. Moreover, both the input data and the output data are provided to the model, and the main aim here is to train the model to predict the output upon receiving new data. Supervised learning offers accurate results and can largely be divided into two parts, classification and regression.
Unsupervised learning: The algorithms of unsupervised learning use unlabeled data for training purposes. In unsupervised learning, the models identify hidden data trends and do not take any feedback. The unsupervised learning model is only provided with input data. Unsupervised learning’s main aim is to identify hidden patterns to extract information from unknown sets of data. It can also be classified into two parts, clustering, and associations. Unfortunately, unsupervised learning offers results that are comparatively less accurate.

Learn more about Machine Learning from this Machine Learning tutorial!
10. What is Bayes’s Theorem in Machine Learning?Bayes’s theorem offers the probability of any given event to occur using prior knowledge. In mathematical terms, it can be defined as the true positive rate of the given sample condition divided by the sum of the true positive rate of the said condition and the false positive rate of the entire population.
Two of the most significant applications of Bayes’s theorem in Machine Learning are Bayesian optimization and Bayesian belief networks. This theorem is also the foundation behind the Machine Learning brand that involves the Naive Bayes classifier.


11. What is PCA in Machine Learning?Multidimensional data is at play in the real world. Data visualization and computation become more challenging with the increase in dimensions. In such a scenario, the dimensions of data might have to be reduced to analyze and visualize it easily. This is done by:

Removing irrelevant dimensions
Keeping only the most relevant dimensions

This is where Principal Component Analysis (PCA) is used.
The goal of PCA is to find a fresh collection of uncorrelated dimensions (orthogonal) and rank them on the basis of variance.
Mechanism of PCA:

Compute the covariance matrix for data objects
Compute eigenvectors and eigenvalues in descending order
Select the initial N eigenvectors to get new dimensions
Finally, change the initial n-dimensional data objects into N-dimensions

Example: Below are two graphs showing data points or objects and two directions, one is green and the other is yellow. Graph 2 is arrived at by rotating Graph 1 so that the x-axis and y-axis represent the green and yellow direction respectively.


After the rotation of data points, it can be inferred that the green direction, the x-axis, gives the line that best fits the data points.
Here, two-dimensional data is being represented; but in real life, the data would be multidimensional and complex. So, after recognizing the importance of each direction, the area of dimensional analysis can be reduced by cutting off the less-significant directions.
Now, we will go through another important Machine Learning interview question on PCA.

Career Transition











































12. What is Support Vector Machine (SVM) in Machine Learning?SVM is a Machine Learning algorithm that is majorly used for classification. It is used on top of the high dimensionality of the characteristic vector.
The following is the code for SVM classifier:
# Introducing required libraries
from sklearn import datasets
from sklearn.metrics import confusion_matrix
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
# Stacking the Iris dataset
iris = datasets.load_iris()
# A -> features and B -> label
A = iris.data
B = iris.target
# Breaking A and B into train and test data
A_train, A_test, B_train, B_test = train_test_split(A, B, random_state = 0)
# Training a linear SVM classifier
from sklearn.svm import SVC
svm_model_linear = SVC(kernel = 'linear', C = 1).fit(A_train, B_train)
svm_predictions = svm_model_linear.predict(A_test)
# Model accuracy for A_test
accuracy = svm_model_linear.score(A_test, B_test)
# Creating a confusion matrix
cm = confusion_matrix(B_test, svm_predictions)


13. What is Cross-validation in Machine Learning?Cross-validation allows a system to increase the performance of the given Machine Learning algorithm, which is fed a number of sample data from the dataset. This sampling process is done to break the dataset into smaller parts that have the same number of rows, out of which a random part is selected as a test set and the rest of the parts are kept as train sets. Cross-validation consists of the following techniques:

Holdout method
K-fold cross-validation
Stratified k-fold cross-validation 
Leave p-out cross-validation


14. What is Entropy in Machine Learning?Entropy in Machine Learning measures the randomness in the data that needs to be processed. The more entropy in the given data, the more difficult it becomes to draw any useful conclusion from the data. For example, let us take the flipping of a coin. The result of this act is random as it does not favor heads or tails. Here, the result for any number of tosses cannot be predicted easily as there is no definite relationship between the action of flipping and the possible outcomes.

15. What is Epoch in Machine Learning?Epoch in Machine Learning is used to indicate the count of passes in a given training dataset where the Machine Learning algorithm has done its job. Generally, when there is a large chunk of data, it is grouped into several batches. All these batches go through the given model, and this process is referred to as iteration. Now, if the batch size comprises the complete training dataset, then the count of iterations is the same as that of epochs.
In case there is more than one batch, d*e=i*b is the formula used, wherein d is the dataset, e is the number of epochs, i is the number of iterations, and b is the batch size.

Intermediate-level Questions
16. What are the types of Machine Learning?This is one of the most basic interview questions that everyone must know.
So, basically, there are three types of Machine Learning. They are described as follows:
Supervised learning: In this type of Machine Learning, machines learn under the supervision of labeled data. There is a training dataset on which a machine is trained, and it gives the output according to its training.

Unsupervised learning: This type of Machine Learning has unlabeled data unlike supervised learning. Unsupervised learning works on data under absolutely no supervision. Unsupervised learning tries to identify patterns in data and makes clusters of similar entities. After that, when a new input data is fed into the model, it does not identify the entity; rather, it puts the entity in a cluster of similar objects.


Reinforcement learning: Reinforcement learning includes models that learn and traverse to find the best possible move. The algorithms for reinforcement learning are constructed in a way that they try to find the best possible suite of action on the basis of the reward and punishment theory.



17. Differentiate between Classification and Regression in Machine LearningIn Machine Learning, there are various types of prediction problems based on supervised and unsupervised learning. They are classification, regression, clustering, and association. Here, we will discuss classification and regression.
Classification: In classification, a Machine Learning model is created that assists in differentiating data into separate categories. The data is labeled and categorized based on the input parameters.
For example, predictions have to be made on the churning out customers for a particular product based on some recorded data. Either the customers will churn out or they will not. So, the labels for this would be “Yes” and “No.”
Regression: It is the process of creating a model for distinguishing data into continuous real values, instead of using classes or discrete values. It can also identify the distribution movement depending on historical data. It is used for predicting the occurrence of an event depending on the degree of association of variables.
For example, the prediction of weather conditions depends on factors such as temperature, air pressure, solar radiation, elevation, and distance from the sea. The relation among these factors assists in predicting the weather condition.
18. How is the suitability of a Machine Learning Algorithm determined for a particular problem?To identify a Machine Learning Algorithm for a particular problem, the following steps should be followed:
Step 1: Problem classification: Classification of the problem depends on the classification of input and output:

Classifying the input: Classification of the input depends on whether there is data labeled (supervised learning) or unlabeled (unsupervised learning), or whether a model has to be created that interacts with the environment and improves itself (reinforcement learning.)
Classifying the output: If the output of a model is required as a class, then some classification techniques need to be used.

If the output is a number, then regression techniques must be used; if the output is a different cluster of inputs, then clustering techniques should be used.
Step 2: Checking the algorithms in hand: After classifying the problem, the available algorithms that can be deployed for solving the classified problem should be considered.
Step 3: Implementing the algorithms: If there are multiple algorithms available, then all of them are to be implemented. Finally, the algorithm that gives the best performance is selected.
19. What is the Variance Inflation Factor?Variance inflation factor (VIF) is the estimate of the volume of multicollinearity in a collection of many regression variables.
VIF = Variance of the model / Variance of the model with a single independent variable
This ratio has to be calculated for every independent variable. If VIF is high, then it shows the high collinearity of the independent variables.

Courses you may like





20. What is a Confusion Matrix?Confusion matrix is used to explain a model’s performance and gives a summary of predictions of the classification problems. It assists in identifying the uncertainty between classes.
Confusion matrix gives the count of correct and incorrect values and error types. Accuracy of the model: 

For example, consider the following confusion matrix. It consists of values as true positive, true negative, false positive, and false negative for a classification model. Now, the accuracy of the model can be calculated as follows:

So, in the example:
Accuracy = (200 + 50) / (200 + 50 + 10 + 60) = 0.78
This means that the model’s accuracy is 0.78, corresponding to its True Positive, True Negative, False Positive, and False Negative values.
21. What are Type I and Type II Errors?Type I Error: Type I Error, false positive, is an error where the outcome of a test shows the nonacceptance of a true condition.
For example, suppose a person gets diagnosed with depression even when they are not suffering from the same, it is a case of false positive.
Type II Error: Type II Error, false negative, is an error where the outcome of a test shows the acceptance of a false condition.
For example, the CT scan of a person shows that they do not have a disease but in fact they do have the disease. Here, the test accepts the false condition that the person does not have the disease. This is a case of false negative.
22. When should Classification be used over Regression?Both classification and regression are associated with prediction. Classification involves the identification of values or entities that lie in a specific group. Regression entails predicting a response value from consecutive sets of outcomes.
Classification is chosen over regression when the output of the model needs to yield the belongingness of data points in a dataset to a particular category.
For example, If you want to predict the price of a house, you should use regression since it is a numerical variable. However, if you are trying to predict whether a house situated in a particular area is going to be high-, medium-, or low-priced, then a classification model should be used.
23. Explain Logistic RegressionLogistic regression is the proper regression analysis used when the dependent variable is categorical or binary. Like all regression analyses, logistic regression is a technique for predictive analysis. Logistic regression is used to explain data and the relationship between one dependent binary variable and one or more independent variables. Logistic regression is also employed to predict the probability of categorical dependent variables.
Logistic regression can be used in the following scenarios:

To predict whether a citizen is a Senior Citizen (1) or not (0)
To check whether a person has a disease (Yes) or not (No)

There are three types of logistic regression:

Binary logistic regression: In this type of logistic regression, there are only two outcomes possible.

Example: To predict whether it will rain (1) or not (0)

Multinomial logistic regression: In this type of logistic regression, the output consists of three or more unordered categories.

Example: Predicting whether the prize of the house is high, medium, or low.

Ordinal logistic regression: In this type of logistic regression, the output consists of three or more ordered categories.

Example: Rating an Android application from one to five stars.
Interested in learning Machine Learning? Enroll in this Machine Learning Training in Bangalore!
24. How to handle Missing or Corrupted Data in a Dataset?In Python pandas, there are two methods to locate lost or corrupted data and discard those values:

isNull(): It can be used for detecting the missing values.
dropna(): It can be used for removing columns or rows with null values.

fillna() can be used to fill the void values with placeholder values.
25. Why is rotation required in PCA? What will happen if the components are not rotated?Rotation is a significant step in principal component analysis (PCA.) Rotation maximizes the separation within the variance obtained by the components. This makes the interpretation of the components easier.
The motive behind conducting PCA is to choose fewer components that can explain the greatest variance in a dataset. When rotation is performed, the original coordinates of the points get changed. However, there is no change in the relative position of the components.
If the components are not rotated, then there needs to be more extended components to describe the variance.
26. What is ROC Curve and what does it represent?ROC stands for receiver operating characteristic. ROC Curve is used to graphically represent the trade-off between true and false-positive rates.
In ROC, the area under the curve (AUC) gives an idea about the accuracy of the model.

The above graph shows a ROC curve. The greater the AUC, the better the performance of the model.
Next, we will be taking a look at Machine Learning interview questions on rescaling, binarizing, and standardizing.
27. Why are Validation and Test Datasets Needed?Data is split into three different categories while creating a model:

Training dataset: Training dataset is used for building a model and adjusting its variables. The correctness of the model built on the training dataset cannot be relied on as the model might give incorrect outputs after being fed new inputs.
Validation dataset: Validation dataset is used to look into a model’s response. After this, the hyperparameters on the basis of the estimated benchmark of the validation dataset data are tuned.When a model’s response is evaluated by using the validation dataset, the model is indirectly trained with the validation set. This may lead to the overfitting of the model to specific data. So, this model will not be strong enough to give the desired response to real-world data.
Test dataset: Test dataset is the subset of the actual dataset, which is not yet used to train the model. The model is unaware of this dataset. So, by using the test dataset, the response of the created model can be computed on hidden data. The model’s performance is tested on the basis of the test dataset.Note: The model is always exposed to the test dataset after tuning the hyperparameters on top of the validation dataset.

As we know, the evaluation of the model on the basis of the validation dataset would not be enough. Thus, the test dataset is used for computing the efficiency of the model.
CTA
28. Explain the difference between KNN and K-means ClusteringK-nearest neighbors (KNN): It is a supervised Machine Learning algorithm. In KNN, identified or labeled data is given to the model. The model then matches the points based on the distance from the closest points.

K-means clustering: It is an unsupervised Machine Learning algorithm. In K-means clustering, unidentified or unlabeled data is given to the model. The algorithm then creates batches of points based on the average of the distances between distinct points.

29. What is Dimensionality Reduction?In the real world, Machine Learning models are built on top of features and parameters. These features can be multidimensional and large in number. Sometimes, the features may be irrelevant and it becomes a difficult task to visualize them.
This is where dimensionality reduction is used to cut down irrelevant and redundant features with the help of principal variables. These principal variables conserve the features, and are a subgroup, of the parent variables.
30. Both being Tree-based Algorithms, how is Random Forest different from Gradient Boosting Machine (GBM)?The main difference between a random forest and GBM is the use of techniques. Random forest advances predictions using a technique called bagging. On the other hand, GBM advances predictions with the help of a technique called boosting.

Bagging: In bagging, we apply arbitrary sampling and we divide the dataset into N. After that, we build a model by employing a single training algorithm. Following that, we combine the final predictions by polling. Bagging helps to increase the efficiency of a model by decreasing the variance to eschew overfitting.
Boosting: In boosting, the algorithm tries to review and correct the inadmissible predictions at the initial iteration. After that, the algorithm’s sequence of iterations for correction continues until we get the desired prediction. Boosting assists in reducing bias and variance for strengthening the weak learners.

31. What is meant by Parametric and Non-parametric Models?Parametric models refer to the models having a limited number of parameters. In case of parametric models, only the parameter of a model is needed to be known to make predictions regarding the new data.
Non-parametric models do not have any restrictions on the number of parameters, which makes new data predictions more flexible. In case of non-parametric models, the knowledge of model parameters and the state of the data needs to be known to make predictions.
32. Differentiate between Sigmoid and Softmax FunctionsSigmoid and Softmax functions differ based on their usage in Machine Learning task classification. Sigmoid function is used in the case of binary classification, while Softmax function is used in case of multi-classification.
33. In Machine Learning, for how many classes can Logistic Regression be used?Logistic regression cannot be used for more than two classes. Logistic regression is, by default, a binary classifier. However, in cases where multi-class classification problems need to be solved, the default number of classes can be extended, i.e., multinomial logistic regression.
34. What do you understand about the P-value?P-value is used in decision-making while testing a hypothesis. The null hypothesis is rejected at the minimum significance level of the P-value. A lower P-value indicates that the null hypothesis is to be rejected.
35. What is meant by Correlation and Covariance?Correlation is a mathematical concept used in statistics and probability theory to measure, estimate, and compare data samples taken from different populations. In simpler terms, correlation helps in establishing a quantitative relationship between two variables.
Covariance is also a mathematical concept; it is a simpler way to arrive at a correlation between two variables. Covariance basically helps in determining what change or affect does one variable has on another.
36. What are the Various Tests for Checking the Normality of a Dataset?In Machine Learning, checking the normality of a dataset is very important. Hence, certain tests are performed on a dataset to check its normality. Some of them are:

D’Agostino Skewness Test
Shapiro-Wilk Test
Anderson-Darling Test
Jarque-Bera Test
Kolmogorov-Smirnov Test

37. What are the Two Main Types of Filtering in Machine Learning? Explain.The two types of filtering are:

Collaborative filtering
Content-based filtering

Collaborative filtering refers to a recommender system where the interests of the individual user are matched with preferences of multiple users to predict new content.
Content-based filtering is a recommender system where the focus is only on the preferences of the individual user and not on multiple users. 
38. Outlier Values can be Discovered from which Tools?The various tools that can be used to discover outlier values are scatterplots, boxplots, Z-score, etc.
39. What is meant by Ensemble Learning?Ensemble learning refers to the combination of multiple Machine Learning models to create more powerful models. The primary techniques involved in ensemble learning are bagging and boosting.
CTAWatch this complete course video on Machine Learning Interview Questions









40. What are the Various Kernels that are present in SVM?The various kernels that are present in SVM are:

Linear
Polynomial
Radial Basis
Sigmoid


Advanced-level Questions
41. Suppose you found that your model is suffering from high variance. Which algorithm do you think could handle this situation and why?Handling High Variance

For handling issues of high variance, we should use the bagging algorithm.
The bagging algorithm would split data into subgroups with a replicated sampling of random data.
Once the algorithm splits the data, we can use random data to create rules using a particular training algorithm.
After that, we can use polling for combining the predictions of the model.

42. What is Rescaling of Data and how is it done?In real-world scenarios, the attributes present in data are in a varying pattern. So, rescaling the characteristics to a common scale is beneficial for algorithms to process data efficiently.
We can rescale data using Scikit-learn. The code for rescaling the data using MinMaxScaler is as follows:
#Rescaling data
import pandas
import scipy
import numpy
from sklearn.preprocessing import MinMaxScaler
names = ['Abhi', 'Piyush', 'Pranay', 'Sourav', 'Sid', 'Mike', 'pedi', 'Jack', 'Tim']
Dataframe = pandas.read_csv(url, names=names)
Array = dataframe.values
# Splitting the array into input and output
X = array[:,0:8]
Y = array[:,8]
Scaler = MinMaxScaler(feature_range=(0, 1))
rescaledX = scaler.fit_transform(X)
# Summarizing the modified data
numpy.set_printoptions(precision=3)
print(rescaledX[0:5,:])
Apart from the theoretical concepts, some interviewers also focus on the implementation of Machine Learning topics. The following Interview Questions are related to the implementation of theoretical concepts.
43. What is Binarizing of Data? How to Binarize?Converting data into binary values on the basis of threshold values is known as binarizing of data. The values that are less than the threshold are set to 0 and the values that are greater than the threshold are set to 1. This process is useful when feature engineering has to be performed. This can also be used for adding unique features. Data can be binarized using Scikit-learn. The code for binarizing data using Binarizer is as follows:
from sklearn.preprocessing import Binarizer
import pandas
import numpy
names = ['Abhi', 'Piyush', 'Pranay', 'Sourav', 'Sid', 'Mike', 'pedi', 'Jack', 'Tim']
dataframe = pandas.read_csv(url, names=names)
array = dataframe.values
# Splitting the array into input and output
X = array[:,0:8]
Y = array[:,8]
binarizer = Binarizer(threshold=0.0).fit(X)
binaryX = binarizer.transform(X)
# Summarizing the modified data
numpy.set_printoptions(precision=3)
print(binaryX[0:5,:])
44. How to Standardize Data?Standardization is the method that is used for rescaling data attributes. The attributes are likely to have a mean value of 0 and a value of the standard deviation of 1. The main objective of standardization is to prompt the mean and standard deviation for the attributes.
Data can be standardized using Scikit-learn. The code for standardizing the data using StandardScaler is as follows:
# Python code to Standardize data (0 mean, 1 stdev)
from sklearn.preprocessing import StandardScaler
import pandas
import numpy
names = ['Abhi', 'Piyush', 'Pranay', 'Sourav', 'Sid', 'Mike', 'pedi', 'Jack', 'Tim']
dataframe = pandas.read_csv(url, names=names)
array = dataframe.values
# Separate the array into input and output components
X = array[:,0:8]
Y = array[:,8]
scaler = StandardScaler().fit(X)
rescaledX = scaler.transform(X)
# Summarize the transformed data
numpy.set_printoptions(precision=3)
print(rescaledX[0:5,:])

45. We know that one-hot encoding increases the dimensionality of a dataset, but label encoding doesn’t. How?When one-hot encoding is used, there is an increase in the dimensionality of a dataset. The reason for the increase in dimensionality is that every class in categorical variables, forms a different variable.
Example: Suppose there is a variable “Color.” It has three sublevels, “Yellow,” “Purple,” and “Orange.” So, one-hot encoding “Color” will create three different variables as Color.Yellow, Color.Purple, and Color.Orange.
In label encoding, the subclasses of a certain variable get the value 0 and 1. So, label encoding is only used for binary variables.
This is why one-hot encoding increases the dimensionality of data and label encoding does not.
Now, if you are interested in doing an end-to-end certification course in Machine Learning, you can check out Intellipaat’s Machine Learning Course with Python.
46. Executing a binary classification tree algorithm is a simple task. But how does tree splitting take place? How does the tree determine which variable to break at the root node and which at its child nodes?Gini index and Node Entropy assist the binary classification tree to make decisions. Basically, the tree algorithm determines the feasible feature that is used to distribute data into the most genuine child nodes.
According to the Gini index, if we arbitrarily pick a pair of objects from a group, then they should be of identical class and the probability for this event should be 1.
The following are the steps to compute the Gini index:

Compute Gini for sub-nodes with the formula: The sum of the square of probability for success and failure (p^2 + q^2)
Compute Gini for split by weighted Gini rate of every node of the split

Now, Entropy is the degree of indecency that is given by the following:
Where a and b are the probabilities of success and failure of the node
When Entropy = 0, the node is homogenous
When Entropy is high, both groups are present at 50–50 percent in the node.
Finally, to determine the suitability of the node as a root node, the entropy should be very low.
47. Imagine you are given a dataset consisting of variables having more than 30% missing values. Let’s say, out of 50 variables, 16 variables have missing values, which is higher than 30%. How will you deal with them?To deal with the missing values, we will do the following:

We will specify a different class for the missing values.
Now, we will check the distribution of values, and we will hold those missing values that are defining a pattern.
Then, we will charge these values into yet another class while eliminating others.

48. Explain False Negative, False Positive, True Negative, and True Positive with a simple example.True Positive (TP): When the Machine Learning model correctly predicts the condition, it is said to have a True Positive value.
True Negative (TN): When the Machine Learning model correctly predicts the negative condition or class, then it is said to have a True Negative value.
False Positive (FP): When the Machine Learning model incorrectly predicts a negative class or condition, then it is said to have a False Positive value.
False Negative (FN): When the Machine Learning model incorrectly predicts a positive class or condition, then it is said to have a False Negative value.
49. What is F1-score and How Is It Used?F-score or F1-score is a measure of overall accuracy of a binary classification model. Before understanding F1-score, it is crucial to understand two more measures of accuracy, i.e., precision and recall.
Precision is defined as the percentage of True Positives to the total number of positive classifications predicted by the model. In other words,
Precision = (No. of True Positives / No. True Positives + No. of False Positives)
Recall is defined as the percentage of True Positives to the total number of actual positive labeled data passed to the model. In other words,
Precision = (No. of True Positives / No. True Positives + No. of False Negatives)
Both precision and recall are partial measures of accuracy of a model. F1-score combines precision and recall and provides an overall score to measure a model’s accuracy.
F1-score = 2 × (Precision × Recall) / (Precision + Recall)
This is why, F1-score is the most popular measure of accuracy in any Machine-Learning-based binary classification model. 
50. How to Implement the KNN Classification Algorithm?Iris dataset is used for implementing the KNN classification algorithm.
# KNN classification algorithm
from sklearn.datasets import load_iris
from sklearn.neighbors import KNeighborsClassifier
import numpy as np
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
iris_dataset=load_iris()
A_train, A_test, B_train, B_test = ztrain_test_split(iris_dataset["data"], iris_dataset["target"], random_state=0)
kn = KNeighborsClassifier(n_neighbors=1) 
kn.fit(A_train, B_train)
A_new = np.array([[8, 2.5, 1, 1.2]])
prediction = kn.predict(A_new)
print("Predicted target value: {}\n".format(prediction))
print("Predicted feature name: {}\n".format
(iris_dataset["target_names"][prediction]))
print("Test score: {:.2f}".format(kn.score(A_test, B_test)))
Output:
Predicted Target Name: [0]
Predicted Feature Name: [‘ Setosa’]
Test Score: 0.92

Come to Intellipaat’s Machine Learning Community if you have more queries on Machine Learning Interview Questions!




Next 













Course Schedule



Name
Date
Details




Data Science Course 


10 Jun 2023(Sat-Sun) Weekend Batch  


View Details






Data Science Course 


17 Jun 2023(Sat-Sun) Weekend Batch  


View Details






Data Science Course 


24 Jun 2023(Sat-Sun) Weekend Batch  


View Details








Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * 
Email * 
 

 











×













Find Online Machine Learning course in Other Regions

Hyderabad Bangalore Chennai India Pune New York Sydney London Melbourne Mumbai Delhi Noida Gurgaon Jaipur Chandigarh Dubai Houston New Jersey Dublin Hong Kong Chicago Australia Abu Dhabi Singapore Toronto Los Angeles Irving Dallas Mountain View San Jose Ashburn Seattle Austin San Diego Columbus Atlanta Boston Washington Sunnyvale Fremont Denver San Francisco Mohali Charlotte Kanpur Bhopal















 
















 














Courses

Machine Learning Course
Data Science Course
Python Certification
Devops Training
Ethical Hacking Certification 
 Business Analyst Certification
Cyber Security Courses
Business Analytics Training
Investment Banking Course
SQL Certification





Courses

AWS Training
UI UX Course
Salesforce Training
Selenium Training
Artificial Intelligence Course
Big Data Course
Azure Administrator Certification
Cyber Security Training
Digital Marketing Training
Supply Chain Training
Electric Vehicle Training
CEH Ethical Hacking Course





Tutorials

Python Tutorial 
AWS Tutorial 
Devops Tutorial 
Tableau Tutorial 
Blockchain Tutorial 





Interview Questions

Python Interview Questions
AWS Interview Questions 
Data Science Interview Questions 
Devops Interview Questions 
Salesforce Interview Questions 









Top Tutorials

Data Science Tutorial
RPA Tutorial
Hadoop tutorial
Machine Learning Tutorial
PL/SQL Tutorial
Cyber Security Tutorial
Salesforce Tutorial
Informatica Tutorial
Azure Tutorial
Power BI Tutorial
SQL Tutorial
Selenium Tutorial
Ethical Hacking Tutorial

Top Articles

What is Cloud Computing?
What is Data Science?
What is Machine Learning?
What is AWS?
What is Digital Marketing?
What is Cyber Security?
What is Salesforce?
What is Artificial Intelligence?
What is SQL?
What is DevOps?

Top Interview Questions

Selenium Interview Questions
SQL Interview Questions
Hadoop Interview Questions
Digital Marketing Interview Questions
Machine Learning Interview Questions
Cyber Security Interview Questions
Azure Interview Questions
Business Analyst Interview Questions and Answers 
Cloud Computing Interview Questions
Tableau Interview Questions













Media 
Contact Us 
Tutorials 
Community 
Interview Questions 


© Copyright 2011 - 2023 Intellipaat Software Solutions Pvt. Ltd.

















 





